arXiv:1510.05844v1  [math.CA]  20 Oct 2015
Strongly regular sequences and proximate orders
Javier Jim´enez-Garrido and Javier Sanz
September 13, 2021
Abstract
Summability methods for ultraholomorphic classes in sectors, deﬁned in terms of a
strongly regular sequence (Mp)p∈N0, have been put forward by A. Lastra, S. Malek and
the second author [27]. We study several open questions related to the existence of ker-
nels of summability constructed by means of analytic proximate orders. In particular, we
give a simple condition that allows us to associate a proximate order with a strongly regu-
lar sequence. Under this assumption, and through the characterization of strongly regular
sequences in terms of so-called regular variation, we show that the growth index γ(M) de-
ﬁned by V.Thilliez [55] and the order of quasianalyticity ω(M) introduced by the second
author [50] are the same.
1
Introduction
The study of the existence and meaning of formal power series solutions to diﬀerential
equations has a long history, going back at least to the works of L. Euler in the 18th century.
Although these solutions are frequently divergent, under fairly general conditions the rate
of growth of their coeﬃcients is not arbitrary. Indeed, a remarkable result of E. Maillet [32]
in 1903 states that any solution ˆf = P
p≥0 apzp for an analytic diﬀerential equation will be
of some Gevrey order, that is, there exist C, A, k > 0 such that |ap| ≤CAp(p!)1/k for every
p ≥0.
These series turn out to be Gevrey asymptotic representations of actual solutions deﬁned
in suitable domains, and there is the possibility of reconstructing such analytic solutions
from the formal ones by a process known as multisummability (in a sense, an iteration of
a ﬁnite number of elementary k−summability procedures), developed in the 1980’s by J.-P.
Ramis, J. ´Ecalle, W. Balser et al. This technique has been proven to apply successfully to
a plethora of situations concerning the study of formal power series solutions at a singular
point for linear and nonlinear (systems of) meromorphic ordinary diﬀerential equations in
the complex domain (see, to cite but a few, the works [1, 3, 11, 38, 49]), for partial diﬀerential
equations (for example, [2, 4, 16, 35, 36, 44, 54]), as well as for singular perturbation problems
(see [5, 13, 26], among others).
However, it is known that non-multisummable (in the previous sense) formal power se-
ries solutions may appear for diﬀerent kinds of equations. G. K. Immink in [18, 19] has
considered diﬀerence equations with formal power series solutions whose coeﬃcients grow at
a precise, intermediate rate between those of Gevrey classes, called 1+ level. She obtained
reconstruction results for actual solutions by the consideration of speciﬁc kernels and integral
transforms, very well suited for the problem studied. Recently, S. Malek [37] has studied
some singularly perturbed small step size diﬀerence-diﬀerential nonlinear equations whose
formal solutions with respect to the perturbation parameter can be decomposed as sums of
two formal series, one with Gevrey order 1, the other of 1+ level, a phenomenon already
observed for diﬀerence equations [12]. In a diﬀerent context, V. Thilliez [56] has proven
some stability results for algebraic equations whose coeﬃcients belong to a general ultra-
holomorphic class deﬁned by means of a so-called strongly regular sequence (comprising, but
not limiting to, Gevrey classes), stating that the solutions will remain in the corresponding
1
