19
Introduction
The main objective of this dissertation is to answer several open questions related to Carleman-
Roumieu ultraholomorphic classes of functions, dened in sectors of the Riemann surface of
the logarithm by imposing constraints for their derivatives' growth in terms of a sequence of
positive real numbers. These problems were motivated by the study of some properties involved
in the work with a summability procedure of formal power series in this context, and by the
introduction of the corresponding new tool of multisummability. The solutions provided here
will heavily rest on the classical, and closely related, theories of regular variation and proximate
orders. The foundations and development of these diverse essential ingredients will be described
in the following paragraphs.
The rst and basic topic which we are interested in is the study of divergent series through
asymptotic expansions. L. Euler is commonly credited with starting the systematic manipulation
of divergent series in the 18th century. He was concerned with their application for the approx-
imation of the values of constants such as e and π. However, during the 19th century and for
some time after this, divergent series were, roughly speaking, excluded from mathematics. This
was mainly due to the fact that A. L. Cauchy gave a rigorous and general denition of the sum
of a (convergent) series which quickly became the standard one. In this sense, we may cite G.
H. Hardy that, in his book [35, p. 5] in 1949, when discussing about the appropriate denition
of the sum of a divergent series, notes the following:
it does not occur to a modern mathematician that a collection of mathematical
symbols should have a `meaning' until one has been assigned to it by denition. It
was not a triviality even to the greatest mathematicians of the eighteenth century.
They had not the habit of denition: it was not natural to them to say, in so many
words, `by X we mean Y'. There are reservations to be made, but it is broadly true to
say that mathematicians before Cauchy asked not `How shall we dene 1−1+1−...?'
but `What is 1 −1 + 1 −...?' and that this habit of mind led them into unnecessary
perplexities and controversies which were often really verbal.
In 1886, H. Poincaré boosted again the mathematical interest in formal (usually divergent)
power series introducing the notion of asymptotic expansion in order to solve several problems
of mathematical physics and celestial mechanics. The asymptotic expansions, in the sense of
Poincaré, are kind of Taylor expansions which provide successive approximations: a complex
function f, holomorphic on a sector S = {z ∈C; 0 < |z| < r, a < arg(z) < b}, admits the
complex formal power series ˆf = P∞
p=0 apzp as its (uniform) asymptotic expansion at the origin
if for every p ∈N0 = N ∪{0} there exists a positive constant Cp such that for every z ∈S one
has
f(z) −
p−1
X
n=0
anzn ≤Cp|z|p,
(1)
