21
so-called level 1+. More recently, S. Malek [70] has studied some singularly perturbed small
step size dierence-dierential nonlinear equations whose formal solutions with respect to the
perturbation parameter can be decomposed as sums of two formal series, one with Gevrey order
1, the other of 1+ level, a phenomenon already observed for dierence equations [20].
All these examples made it interesting to provide the tools for a general, common treatment of
summability, extending the powerful theory of k−summability and multisummability, and which
were able to deal with asymptotic expansions whose estimates in (1) correspond to a constant
Cp of the form Cp = CApMp for some A, C > 0 for a suitable sequence M = (Mp)p∈N0 of positive
real numbers. It turns out that the coecients of the formal power series whose partial sums
appear in (1) for this choice of Cp are also controlled in the same way by M. The corresponding
class of formal power series is denoted by C[[z]]M.
This task, the common treatment of summability, requires two main types of results or
techniques:
(i) The knowledge of injectivity and surjectivity results for the Borel map in this general
context. Observe that an analogue of Watson's Lemma should be obtained for a proper
denition of summability.
(ii) The construction of integral kernels for generalized Laplace and Borel (both formal and
analytic) transforms which allow one to obtain an explicit expression for the sum of an
M−summable series in a direction. Moreover, dierent levels corresponding to distinct se-
quences should be combined, in the same way as dierent k−summability methods produce
multisummability. This amounts to being able to deal with convolution and acceleration
kernels, as developed by W. Balser in [7].
As we will explain now, some parts of the previous program had been already achieved when
I joined the research team in which my PhD has been developed, some other parts will be carried
out in this dissertation, and the rest are work in progress and will be commented on to some
extent in the conclusions.
In order to tackle the rst problem, one should emphasize that one may consider three closely
related, so-called ultraholomorphic classes of functions in a sector S of the Riemann surface of
the logarithm: the class ˜
Au
M(S) of holomorphic functions with uniform asymptotic expansion in
S, satisfying (1) for the above choice of Cp; the class ˜
AM(S) consisting of holomorphic functions
with nonuniform asymptotic expansion in S, meaning that (1) holds for Cp(T) = CT Ap
T Mp on
every proper bounded subsector T of S (instead of uniformly on S), where CT , AT > 0 depend
on the subsector; and, nally, the class AM(S) of functions with bounded derivatives and for
which there exists A = A(f) > 0 such that
sup
z∈S, p∈N0
|f(p)(z)|
App!Mp
< ∞.
Much older than the study of the ultraholomorphic classes is that of the ultradierentiable ones,
which we introduce now. It is well-known that a function f : [a, b] →C is real analytic if and
only if there exists a constant A > 0 such that
sup
x∈[a,b], p∈N0
|f(p)(x)|
App!
< ∞.
Moreover, a real analytic function is determined by the values of its derivatives at a point of the
interval. In 1901, É. Borel showed the existence of classes of (nonanalytic) smooth functions,
Universidad de Valladolid
