24
INTRODUCTION
proximate order. However, the combination of summability methods corresponding to dierent
(nonequivalent but comparable, as it will be explained later) sequences was left as a pending
task.
So, the problems we had in mind when this research was initiated were the following:
(a) Characterize the sequences M such that dM is a nonzero proximate order.
(b) Characterize the sequences M that admit a nonzero proximate order. For these sequences,
the M−summability technique is available.
(c) Determine whether the indices γ(M) and ω(M) are always equal for strongly regular se-
quences, as it happened to be the case for the sequences appearing in the applications.
(d) Decide about the injectivity of the Borel map in the only unsolved case, the space ˜
AM(S)
for a sector S of opening πω(M) in case M does not admit a nonzero proximate order.
(e) Improve our knowledge about the surjectivity of the Borel map in general ultraholomorphic
classes. In case γ(M) and ω(M) are not always equal, it is specially interesting to determine
which of them puts apart the values of surjectivity from those of nonsurjectivity, since
previously known results do not lead to a conclusion.
(f) Proceed, as far as possible, in the study of multisummability in this general context. If
reasonable, apply the technique to the formal solutions of some class of dierence equations,
as those studied by G. K. Immink, or other types of equations.
At this point we start describing the results obtained in this dissertation and how they are
organized.
Chapter 1, of a preparatory nature, contains in its rst section all the preliminary denitions
needed and a brief overview of the most common properties for sequences that appear in the
consideration of ultraholomorphic and ultradierentiable classes. The associated function ωM
and the growth indices γ(M) and ω(M) will also be presented in detail.
While preparing for addressing the rst three items in the previous list, we found that the
concept of regular variation and its extensions appeared once and again related to our problems.
As it will be inferred from the developments presented in the second and third chapter, it enters
crucially in the solution of these problems.
The subject of regular variation was initiated by J. Karamata in 1930, who made use of it
in Tauberian Theorems, like the Hardy-Littlewood-Karamata Theorem. His ideas were devel-
oped by his collaborators and pupils from the `Yugoslavian School' in the following decades. A
measurable function f : [a, ∞) →(0, ∞), with a ≥0, is regularly varying if
lim
x→∞
f(λx)
f(x) = g(λ) ∈(0, ∞)
(4)
for every λ ∈(0, ∞). The theory of regular variation ensures that there exists ρ ∈R such that
g(λ) = λρ and the convergence is uniform for λ in the compact sets of (0, ∞) (see Section 1.2).
This subject was popularized in the 1970's by its applications to probability theory, stimulated
by the contributions of W. Feller and L. de Haan. However, we will be specially interested in its
application to complex analysis, where it appears tightly connected to the notion of proximate
order whose denition was motivated by the study of the growth of entire functions.
In some occasions this theory is too limited and several generalizations have been provided.
In this dissertation, apart from regular variation, we will concentrate on the so-called O-regular
JAVIER JIMÉNEZ GARRIDO
