25
variation, where the lim in (4) is substituted by two conditions with lim sup and lim inf instead.
This notion was also considered by J. Karamata, but it was spread by W. Matuszewska thanks
to its relation with Orlicz spaces in 1964. She characterized it in terms of two indices commonly
known as Matuszewska indices. In virtue of the nature of this work we will be specially interested
in the discrete versions of these concepts. The extension of regular variation for sequences of
positive real numbers was carried out by R. Bojani¢ and E. Seneta in 1973, and the O-regularly
varying version was provided by D. Djur£i¢ and V. Boºin in 1997.
In the second section of
the rst chapter the elementary features of Karamata theory are summarized in a concise but
complete form.
The main purpose of the second chapter is the description of the existing relations among the
notions presented in the rst one. The rst section is centered on the notion of O-regular vari-
ation. Some of the conditions, for instance, moderate growth and strongly nonquasianalyticity,
frequently assumed for the sequence M in order to have suitable properties for the correspond-
ing class, can be restated in terms of O-regular variation. It deserves a specic mention that
Thilliez's index γ(M) and Sanz's index ω(M), independently introduced, will be proved to have
an adequate representation in the classical theory of O-regular variation. In order to establish
its connection to logarithmically convex sequences, we will need to express these conditions by
means of almost monotonicity properties, and to introduce the orders µ(m) and ρ(m) and the
Matuszewska indices β(m) and α(m) for its sequence of quotients m = (mp−1)p∈N. The following
two results (Theorem 2.1.16 and Proposition 2.1.18) illustrate this relation.
Theorem. Let M be a sequence of positive real numbers with sequence of quotients m. Then
γ(M) = β(m),
ω(M) = µ(m).
Proposition. Let M be a sequence of positive real numbers with sequence of quotients m.
Assume that (p!Mp)p∈N0 is logarithmically convex, then
(i) M has moderate growth if and only if α(m) < ∞if and only if m is O-regularly varying.
(ii) M is strongly nonquasianalytic if and only if β(m) > 0.
Consequently, there is a tight connection between the O-regular variation of m and the
strong regularity of M. As a by-product, equivalent descriptions of those indices and orders are
obtained, which will be employed in Chapter 3 when dealing with the surjectivity of the Borel
problem, which indeed motivated the study. A considerable number of details, more than needed
for the surjectivity issue, will be provided in order to exhibit a complete vision of the subject. In
particular, we always have that γ(M) ≤ω(M) (as it was already known before noting this link),
but the most revealing feature deduced from O-regular variation will be that, in general, they
are distinct for strongly regular sequences. This has been not easy to show, since most of the
strongly regular sequences appearing in the applications admit a nonzero proximate order, which
is a stronger condition that in particular implies that ω(M) = γ(M). Example 2.2.26, at the end
of the chapter, shows how to construct a strongly regular sequence with arbitrarily prescribed
values of these two indices, 0 < γ(M) < ω(M) < ∞. Hence, problem (c) is solved.
At the end of the section, the link of these notions with the associated function ωM and the
counting function νm is explained in Theorem 2.1.30 and Proposition 2.1.38, from which the
construction of a dual sequence is derived.
In the second section of this chapter, the leading role is played by proximate orders. The
relation between regularly varying sequences, proximate orders and weight sequences is explored,
which, as mentioned before, is crucial for the availability of the M−summability theory. We will
Universidad de Valladolid
