26
INTRODUCTION
obtain a characterization of the sequences for which dM = log(ωM(t))/ log(t) is a nonzero proxi-
mate order, which was the open question (a) and has been successfully answered in Theorem 2.2.6
in terms of the regular variation of m, summarized as follows:
Theorem. Let M be a weight sequence. The following are equivalent:
(i) dM(t) is a proximate order with limt→∞dM(t) ∈(0, ∞),
(ii) m is regularly varying with a positive index of regular variation.
In case any of these statements holds, the value of the index mentioned in (ii) is ω(M) and the
limit in (i) is 1/ω(M).
Regarding the sequences admitting a nonzero proximate order, in the sense of (3), we will get
a representation formula for them so solving the problem in (b). Furthermore, since equivalent
sequences dene the same ultraholomorphic classes, it will turn out that the admissibility of a
proximate order by M is a natural condition in the sense that it is equivalent to the existence of
a sequence L equivalent to M and such that dL is a nonzero proximate order. The proof of these
facts is presented in Theorem 2.2.19, that states:
Theorem. Let M be a weight sequence, then the following conditions are equivalent:
(i) There exists a weight sequence L equivalent to M (i.e., there exist constants A, B > 0 such
that ApLp ≤Mp ≤BpLp for all p ∈N0) such that dL(t) is a nonzero proximate order,
(ii) M admits a nonzero proximate order,
(iii) There exist ω ∈(0, ∞) and bounded sequences of real numbers (bp)p∈N, (ηp)p∈N such that
(ηp)p∈N converges to ω and we can write
mp = exp

bp+1 +
p+1
X
j=1
ηj
j

,
p ∈N0.
In case the previous holds, limt→∞dL(t) = 1/ω = 1/ω(M).
In addition, a new characterization of regularly varying sequences will be obtained in Propo-
sition 2.2.3 and it will also be shown how one can construct well-behaved weight sequences from
proximate orders in Theorem 2.2.14. Finally, in Subsection 2.2.5 and thanks to our improved
understanding of the properties involved, several examples will be provided exhibiting dierent
pathological behaviors, including Example 2.2.26 mentioned before.
If, instead of admitting a proximate order, weaker conditions are asked for M, for instance
and with the notation of the above representation formula, if (ηp)p∈N is only bounded, which
is equivalent to the O-regular variation of m, it is not known how the M−summability method
can be replicated. However, and this was the problem posed in (d) and (e), it is natural to ask
oneself about the injectivity and surjectivity of the Borel map. The third chapter is devoted
to the study of these questions in the three ultraholomorphic classes of functions previously
considered. After introducing the basic notation in the rst section, we analyze the injectivity
for which, as commented above, nearly all the information was already known. It turns out that
proximate orders again provide the denitive solution for the injectivity problem: even if M does
not admit a nonzero proximate order, one can always control dM by a nonzero proximate order
from above, and a suitable use of the regular variation of the functions of Maergoiz associated
with this proximate order allows one to construct at functions in sectors of optimal opening.
JAVIER JIMÉNEZ GARRIDO
