27
So, the question in (d) is answered, see Theorem 3.2.15. Here the index ω(M) shows its dividing
character. This section ends, helped by the quasianalyticity results, showing in Theorem 3.2.16
that the Borel map is never bijective.
The last section is centered on the surjectivity problem. Some partial results will be obtained
for weight sequences, for example it is shown that for arbitrary weight sequences, surjectivity
for any opening requires γ(M) > 0 or, in other words, M has to be strongly nonquasianalytic.
However, the main advances are for strongly regular sequences. In Corollary 3.3.18, if Sγ is the
unbounded sector of opening πγ and bisecting direction d = 0 of the Riemann surface of the
logarithm, it will be proved the following:
Corollary. Let M be a strongly regular sequence, and let t ∈R, t > 0. Each assertion implies
the following one:
(i) t < γ(M),
(ii) the Borel map ˜B : AM(St) →C[[z]]M is surjective,
(iii) the Borel map ˜B : ˜
Au
M(St) →C[[z]]M is surjective,
(iv) the Borel map ˜B : ˜
AM(St) →C[[z]]M is surjective,
(v) for every ξ ∈I with ξ < t, the Borel map ˜B : ˜
AM(Sξ) →C[[z]]M is surjective,
(vi) t ≤γ(M).
Hence, γ(M) is shown to be the suitable limiting value for surjectivity and this answers the
previous question (e). Finally, some information is specied in case the sequence is even more
regular.
In Chapter 4 we turn to last problem, (f), in the previous list.
Observe that we know
now for which sequences the M−summability method is available. The rst section recalls the
most import features of M−summability theory. So, we are now interested in the extension
of multisummability to this general context. A preliminary discussion concerns the necessity,
for the problem to make sense, that the sequences, which dene the summability methods to
be merged, are comparable and nonequivalent, what will be studied in Subsection 4.2.1. After
establishing the basic properties of the quotient and product sequences of two weight sequences,
the Tauberian Theorem 4.2.14 will be obtained:
Theorem. Let L and M be weight sequences such that L admits a nonzero proximate order,
M/L is logarithmically convex and ω(L) < ω(M). If ˆf ∈C[[z]]L and ˆf is M−summable in all
directions except a nite set (mod 2π), then ˆf is convergent.
Thanks to this result, a consistent denition of multisummability can be given: a formal
power series will be said to be multisummable if it can be split into the sum of nitely many
formal power series ˆfj, each of them summable for a corresponding sequence Mj admitting a
nonzero proximate order. Our objective is to devise a procedure for the explicit reconstruction
of its sum. In Theorems 4.3.21 and 4.3.25, the summability kernels for the quotient and product
sequences of two sequences will be built, with them we will be able to construct the multisum
as it is shown in Theorem 4.3.31. We should mention that the study of multisummability has
not been completed, specially what pertains to some of its possible applications, but we will
postpone the comments on this work in progress to the conclusions.
The last chapter in this dissertation was not initially scheduled, but its inclusion is natu-
ral once the techniques of proximate order and regular variation have been incorporated. It
Universidad de Valladolid
