51
Chapter 2
Logarithmically convex sequences,
O-regular variation and nonzero
proximate orders
The main objective of this chapter is to describe the connection between weight sequences and
the notions of proximate orders, regular and O-regular variation. In the rst section, it will be
shown that the growth properties and indices of Section 1.1 can be represented in terms of upper
and lower orders and the Matuszewska indices. In the second section, we will restrict to the
study of those weight sequences which it is possible to associate a nonzero proximate order with,
characterizing this crucial point for the success in putting forward a satisfactory summability
theory in the general context.
2.1
Logarithmically convex sequences and O-regular variation
The results presented below revolve around the notion of O-regular variation. First, basic prop-
erties of weight sequences are described in dierent ways, for instance, in terms of almost mono-
tonicity properties from which the connection with O-regular variation is inferred. Simultane-
ously in the second subsection, Matuszewska indices, upper and lower orders for sequences are
formalized together with the proof of some distinctive features. In third place, the ingredients
of the previous subsections will be combined, stating this way qualitative growth properties in
terms of quantitative values, orders and indices, which are related to the (independently dened)
indices γ(M) and ω(M) (see Subsection 1.1.4), measuring the opening of the regions for which the
Borel map is surjective or injective, respectively (see Chapter 3). In subsection four, the interac-
tion of the preceding concepts with the associated function ωM, considered in Subsection 1.1.3,
is illustrated. Finally, dual and bidual sequences are constructed giving a possible explanation
for some open questions regarding the essence of indices and orders.
2.1.1
Strongly nonquasianalyticity and moderate growth characterizations
This subsection is primarily devoted to the study of (snq) and (mg) conditions. Characterizations
of these properties will be obtained merging slightly improved versions of some classical results
leading, in the forthcoming subsections, to the notion of O-regular variation. For this purpose,
we need to introduce almost increasing and almost decreasing concepts for sequences, analogous
to the ones for functions (see Denition 1.2.27).
