84
CHAPTER 2.
LOG-CONVEX SEQUENCES, O-REGULAR VARIATION AND PROXIMATE ORDERS
weight sequence, that denes the class, a nonzero proximate order. The link between proximate
orders (see Denition 1.2.7) and a weight sequences M, is given by the function
dM(t) := log(ωM(t))
log(t)
,
for t large enough.
(2.15)
The characterization of the sequences for which dM is a nonzero proximate order was an open
question, successfully answered in Theorem 2.2.6 below. As a byproduct of this result, a new
characterization of regularly varying sequences has been obtained.
Example 2.2.22 provides a strongly regular sequence M, equivalent for ≃to L = (p!)p∈N0,
such that dM(t) is not a proximate order. However, it will be proved in Example 2.2.8 that dL is
a nonzero proximate order (in particular, we deduce that the property of dM being a proximate
order is not stable under equivalence of sequences, neither ≈nor ≃).
So, we may obtain a
satisfactory summability theory in the Carleman ultraholomorphic class associated with L, which
coincides with that associated with M. This shows that asking for dM to be a nonzero proximate
order is a too demanding restriction and one could ask instead for:
(f) There exists a weight sequence L such that L ≈M and dL(t) is a nonzero proximate
order.
On the other hand, J. Sanz had already observed [88, Remark 4.11(iii)] that, for the con-
struction of nontrivial at functions in sectors of optimal opening, dM need not be a nonzero
proximate order, but it is enough that there exist nonzero proximate orders close enough to dM,
in the following sense:
Denition 2.2.1. Let M = (Mp)p∈N0 be a weight sequence. We say that M admits a proximate
order if there exists a proximate order ρ(t) and constants A and B such that
A ≤log(t)(ρ(t) −dM(t)) ≤B,
for t large enough,
or, equivalently, if
eA ≤tρ(t)
ωM(t) ≤eB,
for t large enough.
In Subsection 2.2.4, we will show that the requirement (f) and the admissibility of a nonzero
proximate order are equivalent for a weight sequence M and we provide a Representation The-
orem for such sequences. In order to prove this, we need to construct well-behaved sequences
from proximate orders, employing the duality presented in Subsection 2.1.5. Finally, several
pathological examples of strongly regular sequences, which will be mentioned along the chapter,
are provided.
The results contained in this section are the core of our work [44]. Nevertheless, here some
new information is given, for instance the Representation Theorem 2.2.19, the relation between
the conditions (f), (j), (k) and (ℓ) is claried through some counterexamples (see Remark 2.2.18)
and Subsection 2.2.3, corresponding to Section 4.1 in the paper, has been completely rewritten
with a dierent and more simple approach.
2.2.1
A new characterization of regular variation
The main aim of this subsection is to provide a new characterization of the regular variation
of the sequence of quotients m of any sequence M of positive real numbers with M0 = 1. This
result, interesting in its own right, will be used in the next subsection, Theorem 2.2.6, to describe,
JAVIER JIMÉNEZ GARRIDO
