107
Chapter 3
Injectivity and surjectivity of the
asymptotic Borel map
From the sequences of positive real numbers considered in the previous chapters we will dene
classes of holomorphic functions in unbounded sectors of the Riemann surface of the logarithm.
In this context, the study of properties of the asymptotic Borel map, sending a function f into its
asymptotic expansion, appears as a natural problem. The injectivity and surjectivity of the Borel
map will be examined in three instances: in Roumieu-Carleman ultraholomorphic classes and in
classes of functions admitting (uniform or nonuniform) asymptotic expansion at the origin. It
will be shown that the solution depends on the opening of the sector, injectivity is possible if
the sector is wide enough whereas surjectivity is only attainable in narrow regions. This issue is
closely related with the summability theory presented in the next chapter: injectivity provides
uniqueness and surjectivity existence of the sum of a formal power series.
Injectivity had been solved in two cases by S. Mandelbrojt and B. Rodríguez-Salinas in the
1950's, respectively, and we completely solve the third one by means of the theory of proximate
orders (see Theorem 3.2.15).
Sanz's growth index ω(M) turns out to put apart the values
of the opening of the sector for which injectivity holds or not.
The rst section ends with
Theorem 3.2.16 in which it is proved that the Borel map is never bijective as an outcome of the
injectivity theorems.
In the case of surjectivity, only some partial results were available by J. Schmets and M.
Valdivia and by V. Thilliez at the very beginning of this century, resting on results from the
ultradierentiable setting and disregarding questions about the optimality of the opening of
the sector, that was only established for the Gevrey case Mα = (p!α)p∈N0 . This last author
introduced the growth index γ(M) for this problem. We considerably extend here their results,
proving that γ(M) is indeed optimal in some standard situations, for instance for strongly regular
sequences, putting now apart the values of the opening of the sector for which surjectivity holds
or not.
From the information in Section 2.1, we know that for strongly regular sequences the value of
theses indices ω(M) and γ(M) is generally dierent. However they coincide for a large class, the
ones admitting a nonzero proximate order (see Section 2.2), which contains most of the sequences
appearing in the applications.
The results gathered in this chapter can be found in [48].
