137
Chapter 4
Multisummability via proximate orders
The method of summation of formal power series by means of Borel and Laplace operators was
introduced by É. Borel in the `simplest' case of level 1, and the extension of the method to any
level k is quite straightforward but technical. In 1981 multisummability notion was created in
a somewhat dierent and more general form by J. Écalle [27], using what he called acceleration
operators. In 1992, W. Balser [5] reformulated this method for the Gevrey case by means of the
iterated Laplace integrals. This iteration of a nite number of k−summability procedures, which
has been proved to be stronger than any of them, is based on the fact that a convenient Borel
transform of the series is itself summable. Six dierent approaches to multisummability can be
found in the book of M. Loday [64].
The technique of multisummability (in Balser's sense) has been successfully applied to the
study of formal power series solutions at a singular point of linear and nonlinear (systems of)
meromorphic ordinary dierential equations in the complex domain (see, to cite but a few, the
works [6, 7, 9, 19, 73, 85]), of partial dierential equations (for example, [8, 10, 36, 69, 76]), as
well as of singular perturbation problems (see [11, 23, 59], among others).
Nevertheless, it is known that nonGevrey formal power series solutions may appear for dif-
ferent kinds of equations. For example, V. Thilliez has proven some results on solutions within
these general classes for algebraic equations in [97]. Also, G. K. Immink in [40, 41] has obtained
some results on summability for solutions of dierence equations whose coecients grow at an
intermediate rate between Gevrey classes, called of 1+ level, that is governed by a strongly regu-
lar sequence. More recently, S. Malek [70] has studied some singularly perturbed small step size
dierence-dierential nonlinear equations whose formal solutions with respect to the perturba-
tion parameter can be decomposed as sums of two formal series, one with Gevrey order 1, the
other of 1+ level, a phenomenon already observed for dierence equations [20].
All these results invite one to try to generate summability tools so they are able to deal with
formal power series whose coecients' growth is controlled by a general strongly regular sequence,
so including Gevrey, 1+ level and other interesting examples. These generalized summability
methods have been developed by A. Lastra, S. Malek, J. Sanz in [60, 88, 89] and will be briey
presented in the rst section.
The aim of this chapter is to put forward the corresponding multisummability theory, in
Balser's sense, in this context by suitably combining the methods created from dierent sequences
M1, M2, . . . , Mn instead of dierent Gevrey levels k1, k2, . . . , kn. In the second section, we will
analyze the main diculties of this general approach, such as the comparability of dierent
sequences, the properties of the product and quotient sequences and the extension of the classical
tauberian theorems. The denition of a meaningful multisummability notion depends on the
existence of these tauberian results that will be valid if the growth indices ω(Mj) of the sequences
