146
CHAPTER 4.
MULTISUMMABILITY VIA PROXIMATE ORDERS
Proposition 4.1.25. Let M be a weight sequence. Then,
(i) If ˆf ∈C{z}M and sing( ˆf) = ∅, then ˆf is convergent.
(ii) C{z}M,d, C{z}M are algebras. Moreover, if M is (dc) they are dierential algebras.
Proof.
(i) Using Lemma 4.1.22.(ii), we know that f(z) := SM,d ˆf(z) is well-dened (indepen-
dent from direction d). By Lemma 4.1.22.(iv) we know that f is single-valued, then f can
be expanded into a convergent power series about the origin. By the uniqueness of the
asymptotic expansion, we deduce that ˆf coincides with this convergent power series.
□
4.2
Tauberian theorems
Classical Tauberian theorems ([71, Th. 2.2.4.2] and [7, Th. 37]) serve to compare the processes
of k−summability for various k; these theorems are strongly related to multisummability. In
this section, we will see what can be said about the connection between the algebras C{z}M
and C{z}L for two given sequences M and L. For this purpose in the rst subsection we will
thoroughly examine the comparability notion introduce at the beginning of the dissertation.
Secondly, we will analyze the properties of the quotient and the product sequences of M and L.
Finally, with all these tools, we will formulate our main results, generalizing the Gevrey case if
ω(M) < ω(L), and if ω(M) = ω(L) showing that such a generalization is not possible for our
denition of summability. The results in this section are stated for a couple of sequences but can
be easily extended for a nite set of sequences M1, M2, . . . , Mk.
4.2.1
Comparison of sequences
In this subsection, we want to see whether or not it is possible to compare two dierent sequences
in such a way that the Tauberian theorems are available, so a multisummability notion, that
generalizes the Gevrey situation, can be formulated. The example at the end of the subsection
will show that, in general, we can not always determine which of two given weight sequences,
i.e., (lc) with quotients tending to innity, M and L is greater, not even for sequences whose
quotients are regularly varying which implies the admissibility of a nonzero proximate order (see
Remark 2.2.18). Hence, it will be natural to impose some comparability condition between M
and L in the forthcoming results.
Let M and L be sequences, we recall (see Denition 1.1.12) that M ≾L if there exists some
positive constant A > 0 such that
Mp ≤ApLp,
for all p ∈N0.
We say that M and L are comparable if M ≾L or L ≾M holds. If both conditions hold,
we say that M is equivalent to L, and we write M ≈L. We also remind that if M ≈L then
the corresponding classes of functions are the same (see Remark 3.1.4) and ω(M) = ω(L) (see
Remark 2.1.32). Since equivalent sequences dene the same classes, we are particularly interested
in comparable but not equivalent sequences, i.e., L ≾M and L ̸≈M, which is true if and only if
inf
p∈N
 Lp
Mp
1/p
= 0,
and
sup
p∈N
 Lp
Mp
1/p
< ∞,
JAVIER JIMÉNEZ GARRIDO
