184
CHAPTER 5.
A PHRAGMÉN-LINDELÖF THEOREM VIA PROXIMATE ORDERS AND THE
PROPAGATION OF ASYMPTOTICS
Γ(1+p/k) could be changed into (p!)1/k without changing the asymptotics, but this would aect
the base of the geometric factor providing the type (by Stirling's formula, see [22, pp. 3-4]) in
any case. As it will be explained below, our interest in the type will be limited, and so we will
choose a simple approach in this respect, see Denitions 5.1.1 and 5.1.2.
The proof of this result is based on the classical Phragmén-Lindelöf theorem and on the so-
called Borel-Ritt-Gevrey theorem. This last statement provides the surjectivity, as long as the
opening of the sector is at most π/k, of the Borel map sending a function with Gevrey asymptotic
expansion of order 1/k in a sector to its series of asymptotic expansion, whose coecients will
necessarily satisfy Gevrey-like estimates (see Section 3.3). Also, the injectivity of the Borel map
in sectors of opening greater than π/k (known as Watson's lemma) plays an important role
when specifying conditions that guarantee the uniqueness of a function with a prescribed Gevrey
asymptotic expansion of order 1/k in a direction (see Section 3.2).
The main aim of this chapter is to extend these results for other types of asymptotic ex-
pansions available in the literature. This possibility was already mentioned in [62], where A.
Lastra, J. Mozo-Fernández and J. Sanz generalized the results of Fruchard and Zhang for holo-
morphic functions of several variables in a polysector (cartesian product of sectors) admitting
strong asymptotic expansion in the sense of H. Majima [67, 68], considering also the Gevrey case
as introduced by Y. Haraoka in [34].
The asymptotics we will consider are those associated with a general ultraholomorphic class
of functions, as the ones studied in the previous chapters, dened by constraining the growth of
the sequence of their successive derivatives in a sector in terms of a sequence M = (Mp)p∈N0 of
positive numbers (N0 = {0, 1, 2, . . .} = {0} ∪N), which will play the role of (Γ(1 + p/k))p∈N0 in
(5.1). The possibility of extending to this more general framework the results on the injectivity
or surjectivity of the Borel map, gathered in Chapter 3, and a Phragmén-Lindelöf-like state-
ment, obtained below applying the relation between weight sequences, proximate orders and the
property of regular variation established in Chapter 2, are the keys to our success.
As in the Gevrey case, the study of the type as the direction moves in the sector is possible,
although some information is lost in general (see Remark 5.1.7). This is due to the fact that the
classical exponential kernel appearing in the nite Laplace transform providing the solution of
the Borel-Ritt-Gevrey theorem in the Gevrey case is now replaced by eV (z) (see Remark 4.1.4)
whose behavior at innity is only given by some asymptotic relations, which is not enough for
an accurate handling of the resulting type.
This chapter, whose contents may be found in our work [46], is organized as follows. In Sec-
tion 5.1, several lemmas of a Phragmén-Lindelöf avor are obtained. A paradigm is Lemma 5.1.6,
where exponential decrease is extended from just one direction to a whole small (in the sense of
its opening) sector adjacent to it. Section 5.2 contains several versions of Watson's lemma on the
uniqueness of a function admitting a given asymptotic expansion in a direction, and in the nal
Section 5.3 we characterize the functions with an asymptotic expansion in a sectorial region as
those asymptotically bounded and admitting such expansion in just one direction in the region.
5.1
M−atness extension
As in the previous chapters M = (Mp)p∈N0 always stands for a sequence of positive real numbers,
and we always assume that M0 = 1. In most of the statements, M will be also assumed to be a
weight sequence, that is, (lc) with limp→∞mp = ∞. The reader is referred to Chapters 1 and 2
for the information involving sequences, proximate orders and regular and O-regular variation
and to Chapter 3 for the notation and results concerning the ultraholomorphic classes of functions
dened in sectors and sectorial regions.
JAVIER JIMÉNEZ GARRIDO
