201
Conclusions and future work
This thesis had the aim of exploring certain properties of ultraholomorphic classes of functions
and their application to asymptotic expansions and multisummability theory, analyzing which
results from the Gevrey case can be extended to this general framework. A rst objective suc-
cessfully accomplished in Chapter 2 is the description of the relations between several properties
of the weight sequences and the notions of proximate order, regular and O-regular variation.
From that chapter, Theorem 2.2.19 deserves a special mention because it characterizes the shape
of the sequences for which the summability theory developed in [60, 88, 89] is available.
The third chapter is devoted to the study of the injectivity and surjectivity of the asymptotic
Borel map. The main outcome of this study, completed for injectivity for general weight sequences
and nearly nished for surjectivity and strongly regular sequences, is the existence of two indices
ω(M) and γ(M), one for each problem and generally dierent (see Example 2.2.26), measuring the
limit opening of the sectors for which the Borel map is injective or, respectively, surjective. Since
for all the examples in the applications the value of these indices coincides, this division has been
hard to detect. Finally, in Chapters 4 and 5 the signicance of these results regarding asymptotics
is stressed. In this direction, Tauberian Theorem 4.2.14 claries when the multisummability tool
makes sense in this context.
In that situation, an explicit and detailed construction of the
acceleration kernels has been provided, allowing us to recover the multisum of a formal power
series. Finally, it has been shown that, as it happens in the Gevrey case, one may extend the
M−asymptotic expansion at the origin in a direction of a holomorphic function to the region
where it is bounded.
This dissertation represents the rst step towards a better insight into the conditions fre-
quently assumed for weight functions and weight sequences through the notion of O-regular
variation, expressing qualitative properties in terms of some quantitative values. These present
ndings and techniques might help to solve other issues in the ultraholomorphic and ultradier-
entiable settings. Both settings are closely related, as it has highlighted the study of the Borel
map, enhancing our understanding of their connection. An additional implication that emerges
from this work is the potential application to certain equations, particularly dierence equations,
of the multisummability method, so providing a unied treatment of the problem.
This analysis of ultraholomorphic classes of functions has been primarily concerned with
those dened by means of a weight sequence, of Roumieu type, and in the one-variable situation.
However, some of the outcomes might be also valid in ultraholomorphic classes dened by means
of a weight function or even a weight matrix, as it has been recently considered by A. Rainer
and G. Schindl. Also, the Beurling type classes are suitable for the study of similar problems,
or one could consider classes of functions of several complex variables dened in polysectors
(cartesian products of sectors) or more general regions. At the same time, the present study
has only partially employed the information available from the regular and O-regular variation
theory, so some of the conclusions in the second chapter might be sharpened. Eventually, it is
worth mentioning that, although M−summability methods have been applied in [60, 61], their
