203
of Mα,β−summability the sequence is replaced by the moment sequence meV constructed from
a Maergoiz function V . This phenomenon, which is specially disturbing when dealing with
moment summability methods, is in general a weakness of the Borel summability method,
since there is not a systematic procedure to nd information about the global behavior of
an analytic function, such as the analytic continuation or the position of its singularities, in
terms of its Taylor coecients. For instance, in a recent work by O. Costin and X. Xia [24] the
1−summability of the apparently naive series P∞
p=0 pp+1zp has been shown, and their proof
requires sophisticated tools and concepts such as the analyzability of its coecients and the
use of transseries. It would be worthy to clarify if this could be done in our situation and if
regular variation could bring some light to this issue.
■It is relevant to verify if it is possible to redene the M−summability notion in such a way
that the Tauberian Theorem 4.2.14 is available for two comparable but not equivalent weight
sequences M and L with ω(M) = ω(L). Since Watson's Lemma 3.2.15 for nonuniform asymp-
totics holds for arbitrary sectorial regions, one might need to consider uniform asymptotics.
In this situation, thanks to a theorem of S. Mandelbrojt [72, Sect. 2.4.I] we can determine
regions of quasianalyticity for the smaller sequence, say L, that do not have this property for
the bigger one M, so the Tauberian theorem should be true in this context. However, since
the growth index of the quotient sequence is ω(M/L) = 0, in order to recover the multisum a
new concept of summability kernel, dened just over the positive real axis, should be given.
Moreover, the associated function ωM/L may be rapidly varying, so Maergoiz functions are
useless and a dierent procedure has to be considered for the construction of the kernels.
■The multisummability techniques developed in Chapter 4 will allow to us work at the same time
with M−and k−summability. This leads to the consideration of the summability properties
of the formal power series solutions of dierent types of equations. In the study of dierence
equations, the so-called level 1+ (see the works of G. I. Immink [40, 41]), which corresponds
to the sequence M1,−1, appears. Whenever the other levels, apart from the 1+, of the formal
solution are distinct from 1 we might apply our multisummability method. Nevertheless, there
is an interesting situation in which one needs to apply an acceleration process for the Gevrey
sequence of order 1 and the sequence M1,−1, and for which the issue presented in the last
paragraph needs to be previously solved.
Universidad de Valladolid
