EXTENSION OPERATORS FOR SOME ULTRAHOLOMORPHIC
CLASSES DEFINED BY SEQUENCES OF RAPID GROWTH
JAVIER JIM´ENEZ-GARRIDO, ALBERTO LASTRA, AND JAVIER SANZ
Abstract. While the asymptotic Borel mapping, sending a function into its series of
asymptotic expansion in a sector, is known to be surjective for arbitrary openings in the
framework of ultraholomorphic classes associated with sequences of rapid growth, there
is no general procedure to construct extension operators in this case. We do provide
such operators in complex sectors for some particular classes considered by S. Pilipovi´c,
N. Teofanov and F. Tomi´c in the ultradiﬀerentiable setting. Although these classes are,
in their words, “beyond Gevrey regularity”, in some cases they keep the property of
stability under diﬀerentiation, which is crucial for our technique, based on formal Borel-
and truncated Laplace-like transforms with suitable kernels.
AMS Classiﬁcation: Primary 47A57; secondary 46E10, 44A20.
Keywords: Linear extension operators, asymptotic expansions, Carleman ultraholomor-
phic classes, Lambert function, Laplace transform.
1. Introduction
The concept of asymptotic expansion dates back to H. Poincar´e in 1886, who gave
an analytical meaning to the formal (generally divergent) power series solutions to some
classical problems in optics or astronomy. Since then, its use has pervaded the theory of
formal solutions to general classes of ordinary and partial diﬀerential equations, diﬀerence
and q-diﬀerence equations, and so on. For simplicity, we consider asymptotic expansions
P∞
p=0 apzp of functions f analytic in unbounded sectors S of the Riemann surface of
the logarithm with vertex at 0.
Although in its original formulation the remainders
f(z) −Pn−1
p=0 apzp were assumed to be just bounded for all z ∈S by a suitable constant
(depending on n) times |z|n, the asymptotic techniques have shown its real power when
a precise rate of growth for the constants, in the form CAnMn for A, C > 0 and a
sequence (Mp)∞
p=0 of positive real numbers, is either obtained from the concrete problem
under study, or speciﬁed for theoretical considerations. In this way, ultraholomorphic
classes of functions associated with the weight sequence M = (Mp)∞
p=0 and the sector S
have been introduced, and it is important to decide about the injectivity and surjectivity
of the (asymptotic) Borel map, sending a function in one of such classes into its series
Date: April 5, 2022.
1
arXiv:2204.01316v1  [math.FA]  4 Apr 2022
