2
JAVIER JIM´ENEZ-GARRIDO, ALBERTO LASTRA, AND JAVIER SANZ
of asymptotic expansion. We refer the reader to the works [16, 21, 10] for a complete
solution of the injectivity problem. In the last of these references, the seminal results of
V. Thilliez [23], proving surjectivity of the Borel map in a constructive way for strongly
regular sequences M in sectors of opening less than πγ(M), where γ(M) is a growth index
associated with M, were shown to be optimal except possibly for the critical opening: if
surjectivity occurs, the opening will be at most πγ(M) (see Subsection 2.2 for the notions
related to weight sequences). Very recently, G. Schindl and the ﬁrst and third authors [12]
have obtained a similar result for the more general case that bM = (p!Mp)∞
p=0 is a regular
weight sequence in the sense of E. M. Dyn’kin [7], but now the proof is not constructive.
Indeed, the key fact is due to A. Debrouwere [4], who characterized the surjectivity of
the Stieltjes moment problem in Gelfand-Shilov spaces deﬁned by regular sequences by
abstract functional-analytic techniques.
The Fourier transform allows to transfer this
information into the asymptotic framework in a halfplane, and in [12] Laplace and Borel
transforms of arbitrary order extend the procedure to general sectors. In particular, the
condition γ(M) = ∞(we say the sequences satisfying this condition are of rapid growth,
see Remark 2.3) is shown to amount to the surjectivity of the Borel map, and the existence
of both local and global linear continuous right inverses for it, for unbounded sectors of
arbitrary (ﬁnite) opening in the Riemann surface of the logarithm.
The main aim of this paper is to give a constructive proof of the surjectivity of the
Borel map in sectors of the complex plane for the ultraholomorphic class associated with
some speciﬁc sequences, Mτ,σ = (pτpσ)∞
p=0, which are not strongly regular, but for which
the sequence bM is regular as long as 1 < σ < 2. These sequences have been considered
in a series of papers by S. Pilipovi´c, N. Teofanov and F. Tomi´c [17, 18, 19, 20], inducing
ultradiﬀerentiable spaces of so-called extended Gevrey regularity. However, it is important
to note that the estimates they impose on the elements of those classes are diﬀerent, as
their derivatives are controlled by expressions of the form CApσpτpσ instead. This change
of the geometric factor Ap into the faster Apσ entails some enhancements in the stability
of the classes, but it is not well suited for our purposes, so we attach to the standard
framework in ultraholomorphic classes. Our technique is similar to the one employed by
S. Malek and the second and third authors [14] for reproving Thilliez’s results, and by
the third author in [22, Theorem 6.1] for closing the surjectivity problem for strongly
regular sequences admitting a nonzero proximate order. It rests on the construction of
suitable kernel functions allowing us to deﬁne formal Borel- and truncated Laplace-like
transforms, in terms of which the solution is provided. These kernels are constructed
using the Lambert function and it is possible to prove that they have good behavior
thanks to its properties. Regrettably, the multivalued character of the Lambert function,
that appears in our procedure in a crucial way, causes some diﬃculties in order to reason
in sectors of opening greater than 2π; for such openings, although surjectivity of the Borel
map is known to hold, our constructive proof is not available.
