arXiv:math/0602366v1  [math.CA]  17 Feb 2006
DIVISION BY FLAT ULTRADIFFERENTIABLE FUNCTIONS
AND SECTORIAL EXTENSIONS
VINCENT THILLIEZ
Abstract. We consider classes AM (S) of functions holomorphic in an open
plane sector S and belonging to a strongly non-quasianalytic class on the
closure of S. In AM (S), we construct functions which are ﬂat at the vertex of
S with a sharp rate of vanishing. This allows us to obtain a Borel-Ritt type
theorem for AM (S) extending previous results by Schmets and Valdivia. We
also derive a division property for ideals of ﬂat ultradiﬀerentiable functions, in
the spirit of a classical C∞result of Tougeron.
Mathematics Subject Classiﬁcation (2000): 30E05, 30D60, 46E15, 26E10
Keywords: non-quasianalyticity, Borel-Ritt extension theorem, ideals of ultradiﬀerentiable func-
tions
Introduction
Let S be an unbounded, open, plane sector with vertex at the origin. For a given
sequence M = (Mj)j≥0 of positive real numbers, we consider the ultraholomorphic
class of functions associated with M in S, that is the class AM(S) of functions which
are holomorphic in S and whose derivatives at any order j are uniformly bounded
by Cσjj!Mj, where C and σ are positive constants (depending on the function). Of
course, working with such classes requires some growth and regularity assumptions
on M. In the present paper, we always use a standard set of assumptions, described
in subsection 1.1, which ensures that a Whitney extension theorem holds for the
corresponding ultradiﬀerentiable class CM(Rn), that is the class of C∞functions
in Rn whose partial derivatives at any order j are bounded by Cσjj!Mj. We shall
indeed use Whitney extensions, as well as Whitney’s spectral theorem, in these
classes.
At the origin, any function in AM(S) admits an asymptotic formal power series
P
j∈N λj zj
j! with the estimate |λj| ≤Cσjj!Mj on the coeﬃcients.
The class is
said to be non-quasianalytic if it contains a non-zero function which is ﬂat at the
vertex, in other words such that λj = 0 for any j. The study of quasianalyticity for
AM(S) has a long history, but we shall only refer, for our purpose, to the classical
characterization by Korenblum [12], relating M and the aperture of S, as recalled
in subsection 2.2.
The present paper contains three main results. The ﬁrst one, theorem 2.3.1, is
the key to the two others. Under the aforementioned set of assumptions on M, it
provides a construction of ﬂat functions belonging to AM(S) and admitting certain
sharp estimates from above and below. In a ﬁrst step, devoted to the particular
case of a half-plane, the result is obtained by means of a suitable outer function, see
subsection 2.1. We thank Jacques Chaumat for having suggested this approach. In
a second step, the general problem is reduced to the case of a half-plane by checking
that the outer function of proposition 2.1.3 behaves well under ramiﬁcation. Prior
to this, a certain amount of work has to be completed in order to analyze the
relationship between M and the aperture of sectors S for which the construction is
1
