DIVISION BY FLAT FUNCTIONS AND SECTORIAL EXTENSIONS
15
3.3. Comments on the strong regularity assumption. The problem of secto-
rial extensions could be put under weaker assumptions on M, say (1) and (2). But
as in the C∞case, it is easy to see that the desired surjectivity property implies also
the surjectivity of B : CM(R) −→ΛM(N). Therefore, Petzsche’s results [13] show
that assumption (4) is necessary. The additional moderate growth assumption (3)
seems more related to technical reasons. Consider, for example, Mj = ej2. In this
case, for which (1), (2) and (4) hold, but not (3), it is easy to check that theorem
5.6 of [15] applies: for any real γ > 0, there exists a continuous extension map Tγ
from the (LB)-space ΛM(N) to the (LB)-space AM(Sγ). The arbitrary aperture
agrees with the fact that (Pγ) holds here for any γ.
In this particular example, disregarding continuity properties, one can also obtain
an extension procedure working simultaneously for every γ. Indeed, being given a
sequence λ in ΛM(N), section 2 of [20] provides a function holomorphic in a whole
“punctured disc” D = {z ∈Σ ; |z| < δ} on the Riemann surface Σ, and whose
restriction to every bounded sector Sγ ∩D belongs to AM(Sγ ∩D) and satisﬁes
Bf = λ.
We do not know whether a similar statement holds for more general
sequences M satisfying (1), (2) and (4), but not (3).
3.4. The case of Beurling classes. Instead of a Carleman class AM(Sγ), it is
also possible to consider a Beurling class, that is the Fr´echet space A−
M(Sγ) obtained
as the projective limit of spaces AM,σ(Sγ). In the same way, one deﬁnes a Fr´echet
space Λ−
M(N) as the projective limit of spaces ΛM,σ(N) and we have an induced Borel
map B : A−
M(Sγ) −→Λ−
M(N). Theorem 3.2.1 then has the following corollary.
Corollary 3.4.1. For any strongly regular sequence M and any real number γ with
0 < γ < γ(M), the Borel map B : A−
M(Sγ) −→Λ−
M(N) is surjective.
Proof. The result is an easy consequence of theorem 3.2.1 and of the following
argument, inspired by [6]: for any element λ of Λ−
M(N), one can ﬁnd a strongly
regular sequence N, with γ < γ(N), such that the sequence λ belongs to ΛN(N)
and the Carleman class AN(Sγ) is contained in the Beurling class A−
M(Sγ). The
construction of N is a slight variation on lemma 16 and proposition 17 of [6]; we
will not describe the details here.
□
It should be emphasized that Schmets and Valdivia have also considered in [15]
the case of Beurling classes, quite in the same spirit as for Carleman classes. A nice
feature of theorem 4.5 of [15] is that it provides linear continuous extension maps.
4. Division by flat functions
4.1. Setting of the problem. Denote by C∞(Rn, 0) the ring of C∞function germs
at the origin of Rn. For any open neighborhood Ωof the origin, denote by πΩ
the canonical mapping which, to each element of C∞(Ω), associates its germ in
C∞(Rn, 0).
Let I be an ideal of C∞(Rn, 0).
An ideal IΩof C∞(Ω) is called a
representative of I if it satisﬁes πΩ(IΩ) = I, and we say that I is closed if, for any
suﬃciently small Ω, it has a closed representative in the Fr´echet space C∞(Ω).
Now let X be a germ of closed subset at the origin of Rn.
With the usual
confusion between germs and their representatives, an element of C∞(Rn, 0) is said
to be ﬂat on X if it vanishes, together with all its derivatives, on X. We denote
by m∞
X the ideal of all such germs. A classical result of Tougeron ([18], proposition
V.2.3), when stated from a local viewpoint, asserts that for any closed ideal I of
C∞(Rn, 0), the ideal of elements of I which are ﬂat on X is generated over I by
m∞
X , which can be written
(49)
I ∩m∞
X = m∞
X I.
