arXiv:1402.1669v1  [math.CV]  7 Feb 2014
Summability in general Carleman ultraholomorphic classes
Alberto Lastra, St´ephane Malek and Javier Sanz
April 20, 2022
Abstract
A deﬁnition of summability is put forward in the framework of general Carleman ultraholomorphic
classes in sectors, so generalizing k−summability theory as developed by J.-P. Ramis. Departing from
a strongly regular sequence of positive numbers, we construct an associated analytic proximate order
and corresponding kernels, which allow us to consider suitable Laplace and Borel-type transforms, both
formal and analytic, whose behavior closely resembles that of the classical ones in the Gevrey case. An
application to the study of the summability properties of the formal solutions to some moment-partial
diﬀerential equations is included.
Key words: Laplace and Borel transforms, formal power series, asymptotic expansions, ultraholomorphic
classes, summability, moment-partial diﬀerential equations.
2010 MSC: Primary 40C10; Secondary: 30D60, 34M30, 35C15, 35C20.
1
Introduction
The aim of this paper is to put forward a concept of summability of formal (i.e. divergent
in general) power series with controlled growth in their coeﬃcients in the framework of general
Carleman ultraholomorphic classes in sectors, so generalizing the by-now classical and powerful
tool of k-summability of formal Gevrey power series, introduced by J.-P. Ramis [36, 37].
Given a sequence of positive real numbers M = (Mn)n∈N0, the Carleman ultraholomorphic
class ˜
AM(G) in a sectorial region G of the Riemann surface of the logarithm consists of those
holomorphic functions f in G whose derivatives of order n ≥0 are bounded on every bounded
proper subsector of G by, essentially, the values n!Mn. Equivalently (see Subsection 2.3), these
functions admit a (non-uniform) M-asymptotic expansion at 0 in G, given by a formal power
series ˆf = P
n≥0 anzn/n! whose coeﬃcients are again suitably bounded in terms of M (we write
f ∼M ˆf and (an)n∈N0 ∈ΛM; f is said to be ﬂat if ˜B(f) is the null sequence). The map sending
f to (an)n∈N0 is the asymptotic Borel map ˜B, and its injectivity in ˜
AM(G) means that every
function f in such a class is determined by its asymptotic expansion ˆf (in other words, the
class does not contain nontrivial ﬂat functions). In this case, the class ˜
AM(G) is said to be
quasianalytic, and it makes sense to call f the sum of ˆf; this is the idea behind summability
methods in this context.
We will only consider strongly regular sequences M as deﬁned by V. Thilliez [40], which
are subject to standard conditions guaranteeing good properties for the considered classes (see
Subsection 2.2). The best known example is that of Gevrey classes, corresponding to Mα =
(n!α)n∈N0, α > 0, for which we use the notations ˜
Aα(G), Λα, f ∼α ˆf and so on, for simplicity.
Let us denote by Sγ the sector bisected by the direction d = 0 and with opening πγ. It is
well known that ˜B : ˜
Aα(Sγ) →Λα is injective if, and only if, γ > α (Watson’s Lemma, see for
1
