Stability under product and composition for uniform
Carleman asymptotic expansions
Javier Jim´enez-Garrido
Ignacio Miguel-Cantero
Javier Sanz
Gerhard Schindl
April 23, 2026
Abstract
We study the stability under point-wise product and under composition in Car-
leman classes of holomorphic functions, defined on sectors of the Riemann surface
of the logarithm, and admitting a uniform asymptotic expansion with remainders
controlled by a given sequence of positive real numbers M. On the one hand, the
well-known conditions of algebrability and Fa`a di Bruno, imposed on the sequence
M, ensure the desired stability with respect to each operation in both the Roumieu
and the Beurling settings. On the other hand, these conditions turn out to be nec-
essary for the corresponding stability in the Roumieu case as long as the existence
of suitable characteristic functions, in a precise sense, is guaranteed within the class.
The construction of such functions rests on classical results of B. Rodr´ıguez-Salinas,
and is given in detail. Our results are inspired by, and thoroughly generalize, several
partial statements by G. Auberson and G. Mennessier for Gevrey classes of order 1.
Key words: Uniform asymptotic expansion; algebras of functions; stability properties.
2020 Mathematics Subject Classification Codes:
Primary 30E15, 30H50; secondary
46J15.
1
Introduction
We denote by e
Au
{M}(S) the ultraholomorphic Roumieu-type classes of functions with
uniform asymptotic expansion, in a sector S of the Riemann surface of the logarithm,
whose remainders are bounded in terms of a weight sequence M = (Mj)j∈N0 ∈RN0
>0. This
paper focuses on characterizing the stability of these classes under two fundamental
operations: point-wise multiplication and composition.
Our primary objective is to
demonstrate that the stability properties of these classes can be characterized in terms
of growth conditions on the defining sequence M. For the problem of stability under
point-wise multiplication, we show that the condition (alg), namely
∃C ≥1 ∀j, k ∈N0 :
MjMk ≤Cj+kMj+k,
1
arXiv:2604.20758v1  [math.CV]  22 Apr 2026
