viii       Preface
Do such formal power series occur naturally in applications? Yes, they
do, and here are three simple examples:
1. The formal power series ˆf(z) = ∞
0 n! zn+1 formally satisﬁes the
ordinary diﬀerential equation (ODE for short)
z2 x′ = x −z.
(0.1)
But everybody knows how to solve such a simple ODE, so why care
about this divergent power series? Yes, that is true! But, given a
slightly more complicated ODE, we can no longer explicitly compute
its solutions in closed form. However, we may still be able to compute
solutions in the form of power series. In the simplest case, the ODE
may even have a solution that is a polynomial, and such solutions can
sometimes be found as follows: Take a polynomial p(z) = m
0 pn zn
with undetermined degree m and coeﬃcients pn, insert into the ODE,
compare coeﬃcients, and use the resulting equations, which are linear
for linear ODE, to compute m and pn. In many cases, in particular
for large m, we may not be able to ﬁnd the values pn explicitly. How-
ever, we may still succeed in showing that the system of equations
for the coeﬃcients has one or several solutions, so that at least the
existence of polynomial solutions follows. In other cases, when the
ODE does not have polynomial solutions, one can still try to ﬁnd,
or show the existence of, solutions that are “polynomials of inﬁnite
degree,” meaning power series
ˆf(z) =
∞

0
fn (z −z0)n,
with suitably chosen z0, and fn to be determined from the ODE.
While the approach at ﬁrst is very much analogous to that for poly-
nomial solutions, two new problems arise: For one thing, we will get
a system of inﬁnitely many equations in inﬁnitely many unknowns,
namely, the coeﬃcients fn; and secondly, we are left with the prob-
lem of determining the radius of convergence of the power series. The
ﬁrst problem, in many cases, turns out to be relatively harmless, be-
cause the system of equations usually can be made to have the form
of a recursion: Given the coeﬃcients f0, . . . , fn, we can then compute
the next coeﬃcient fn+1. In our example (0.1), trying to compute
a power series solution ˆf(z), with z0 = 0, immediately leads to the
identities f0 = 0, f1 = 1, and fn+1 = n fn, n ≥1. Even to ﬁnd the
radius of convergence of the power series may be done, but as the
above example shows, it may turn out to be equal to zero!
2. Consider the diﬀerence equation
x(z + 1) = (1 −a z−2) x(z).
