Preface       ix
After some elementary calculations, one can show that this diﬀerence
equation has a unique solution of the form ˆf(z) = 1 + ∞
1 fn z−n,
which is a power series in 1/z. The coeﬃcients can be uniquely com-
puted from the recursion obtained from the diﬀerence equation, and
they grow, roughly speaking, like n! so that, as in the previous case,
the radius of convergence of the power series is equal to zero. Again,
this example is so simple that one can explicitly compute its solutions
in terms of Gamma functions. But only slightly more complicated
diﬀerence equations cannot be solved in closed form, while they still
have solutions in terms of formal power series.
3. Consider the following problem for the heat equation:
ut = uxx,
u(0, x) = ϕ(x),
with a function ϕ that we assume holomorphic in some region G.
This problem has a unique solution u(t, x) = ∞
0 un(x) tn, with co-
eﬃcients given by
un(x) = ϕ(2n)(x)
n!
,
n ≥0.
This is a power series in the variable t, whose coeﬃcients are functions
of x that are holomorphic in G. As can be seen from Cauchy’s Integral
Formula, the coeﬃcients un(x), for ﬁxed x ∈G, in general grow like
n! so that the power series has radius of convergence equal to zero.
So formal power series do occur naturally, but what are they good for? Well,
this is exactly what this book is about. In fact, it presents two diﬀerent
but intimately related aspects of formal power series:
For one thing, the very general theory of asymptotic power series expan-
sions studies certain functions f that are holomorphic in a sector S but
singular at its vertex, and have a certain asymptotic behavior as the variable
approaches this vertex. One way of describing this behavior is by saying
that the nth derivative of the function approaches a limit fn as the variable
z, inside of S, tends toward the vertex z0 of the sector. As we shall see, this
is equivalent to saying that the function, in some sense, is inﬁnitely often
diﬀerentiable at z0, without being holomorphic there, because the limit of
the quotient of diﬀerences will only exist once we stay inside of the sector.
The values fn may be regarded as the coeﬃcients of Taylor’s series of f,
but this series may not converge, and even when it does, it may not con-
verge toward the function f. Perhaps the simplest example of this kind is
the function f(z) = e−1/z, whose derivatives all tend to fn = 0 whenever z
tends toward the origin in the right half-plane. This also shows that, unlike
for functions that are holomorphic at z0, this Taylor series alone does not
determine the function f. In fact, given any sector S, every formal power
series ˆf arises as an asymptotic expansion of some f that is holomorphic
