x       Preface
in S, but this f never is uniquely determined by ˆf, so that in particular the
value of the function at a given point z ̸= z0 in general cannot be computed
from the asymptotic power series. In this book, the theory of asymptotic
power series expansions is presented, not only for the case when the co-
eﬃcients are numbers, but also for series whose coeﬃcients are in a given
Banach space. This generalization is strongly motivated by the third of the
above examples.
While general formal power series do not determine one function, some
of them, especially the ones arising as solutions of ODE, are almost as well-
behaved as convergent ones: One can, more or less explicitly, compute some
function f from the divergent power series ˆf, which in a certain sector
is asymptotic to ˆf. In addition, this function f has other very natural
properties; e.g., it satisﬁes the same ODE as ˆf. This theory of summability
of formal power series has been developed very recently and is the main
reason why this book was written.
If you want to have a simple example of how to compute a function from
a divergent power series, take ˆf(z) = ∞
0 fn zn, assuming that |fn| ≤n!
for n ≥0. Dividing the coeﬃcients by n! we obtain a new series converging
at least for |z| < 1. Let g(z) denote its sum, so g is holomorphic in the unit
disc. Now the general idea is to deﬁne the integral
f(z) = z−1
 ∞
0
g(u) e−u/z du
(0.2)
as the sum of the series ˆf. One reason for this to be a suitable deﬁnition is
the fact that if we replace the function g by its power series and integrate
termwise (which is illegal in general), then we end up with ˆf(z). While
this motivation may appear relatively weak, it will become clear later that
this nonetheless is an excellent deﬁnition for a function f deserving the
title sum of ˆf – except that the integral (0.2) may not make sense for one
of the following two reasons: The function g is holomorphic in the unit
disc but may be undeﬁned for values u with 1 u ≥1, making the integral
entirely meaningless. But even if we assume that g can be holomorphi-
cally continued along the positive real axis, its rate of growth at inﬁnity
may be such that the integral diverges. So you see that there are some
reasons that keep us from getting a meaningful sum for ˆf in this simple
fashion, and therefore we shall have to consider more complicated ways of
summing formal power series. Here we shall present a summation process,
called multisummability, that can handle every formal power series which
solves an ODE, but is still not general enough for solutions of certain dif-
ference equations or partial diﬀerential equations. Jean Ecalle, the founder
of the theory of multisummability, has also outlined some more general
1Observe that such an inequality should be understood as saying: Here, the number
u must be real and at least 1.
