Preface       xi
summation methods suitable for diﬀerence equations, but we shall not be
concerned with these here.
Content of this Book
This book attempts to present the theory of linear ordinary diﬀerential
equations in the complex domain from the new perspective of multisumma-
bility. It also brieﬂy describes recent eﬀorts on developing an analogous
theory for nonlinear systems, systems of diﬀerence equations, partial dif-
ferential equations, and singular perturbation problems. While the case of
linear systems may be said to be very well understood by now, much more
needs to be done in the other cases.
The material of the book is organized as follows: The ﬁrst two chapters
contain entirely classical results on the structure of solutions near regular,
resp.2 regular-singular, points. They are included here mainly for the sake
of completeness, since none of the problems that the theory of multisumma-
bility is concerned with arise in these cases. A reader with some background
on ODE in the complex domain may very well skip these and immediately
advance to Chapter 3, where we begin discussing the local theory of systems
near an irregular singularity. Classically, this theory starts with showing ex-
istence of formal fundamental solutions, which in our terminology will turn
out to be multisummable, but not k-summable, for any k > 0. So in a way,
these classical formal fundamental solutions are relatively complicated ob-
jects. Therefore, we will in Chapter 3 introduce a diﬀerent kind of what we
shall call highest level formal fundamental solutions, which have much bet-
ter theoretical properties, although they are somewhat harder to compute.
In the following chapters we then present the theory of asymptotic power
series with special emphasis on Gevrey asymptotics and k-summability.
In contrast to the presentation in [21], we here treat power series with
coeﬃcients in a Banach space. The motivation for this general approach
lies in applications to PDE and singular perturbation problems that shall
be discussed brieﬂy later. A reader who is not interested in this general
setting may concentrate on series with coeﬃcients in the complex number
ﬁeld, but the general case really is not much more diﬃcult.
In Chapters 8 and 9 we then return to the theory of ODE and discuss the
Stokes phenomenon of highest level. Here it is best seen that the approach
we take here, relying on highest level formal fundamental solutions, gives a
far better insight into the structure of the Stokes phenomenon, because it
avoids mixing the phenomena occurring on diﬀerent levels. Nonetheless, we
then present the theory of multisummability in the following chapters and
indicate that the classical formal fundamental solutions are indeed multi-
summable. The remaining chapters of the book are devoted to related but
2Short for “respectively.”
