xii       Preface
diﬀerent problems such as Birkhoﬀ’s reduction problem or applications of
the theory of multisummability to diﬀerence equations, partial diﬀerential
equations, or singular perturbation problems. Several appendices provide
the results from other areas of mathematics required in the book; in par-
ticular some well-known theorems from the theory of complex variables are
presented in the more general setting of functions with values in a Banach
space.
The book should be readable for students and scientists with some back-
ground in matrix theory and complex analysis, but I have attempted to
include all the (nonelementary) results from these areas in the appendices.
A reader who is mainly interested in the asymptotic theory and/or multi-
summability may leave out the beginning chapters and start reading with
Chapters 4 through 7, and then go on to Chapter 10 – these are pretty
much independent of the others in between and may be a good basis for a
course on the subject of asymptotic power series, although the remaining
ones may provide an excellent motivation for such a general theory to be
developed.
Personal Remarks
Some personal remarks may be justiﬁed here: In fall of 1970, I came to the
newly founded University of Ulm to work under the direction of Alexan-
der Peyerimhoﬀin summability theory. About 1975 I switched ﬁelds and,
jointly with W. B. Jurkat and D. A. Lutz, began my studies in the very
classical, yet still highly active, ﬁeld of systems of ordinary linear diﬀeren-
tial equations whose coeﬃcients are meromorphic functions of a complex
variable (for short: meromorphic systems of ODE). This ﬁeld has occupied
most of my (mathematical) energies, until almost twenty years later when
I took up summability again to apply its techniques to the divergent power
series that arise as formal solutions of meromorphic ODE. In this book, I
have made an eﬀort to represent the classical theory of meromorphic sys-
tems of ODE in the new light shed upon it by the recent achievements in
the theory of summability of formal power series.
After more than twenty years of research, I have become highly addicted
to this ﬁeld. I like it so much because it gives us a splendid opportunity
to obtain signiﬁcant results using standard techniques from the theory of
complex variables, together with some matrix algebra and other classical
areas of analysis, such as summability theory, and I hope that this book
may infect others with the same enthusiasm for this fascinating area of
mathematics. While one may also achieve useful results using more sophis-
ticated tools borrowed from advanced algebra, or functional analysis, such
will not be required to understand the content of this book.
I should like to make the following acknowledgments: I am indebted to
the group of colleagues at Grenoble University, especially J. DellaDora, F.
Jung, and M. Barkatou and his students. During my appointment as Pro-
