2
1. Basic Properties of Solutions
tuitive understanding of this concept, but we shall also discuss this surface
on p. 226 in the Appendix.
Most of the time we shall restrict ourselves to systems of ﬁrst-order
linear equations. Since every νth order equation can be rewritten as a
system (see Exercise 5 on p. 4), our results carry over to such equations as
well. However, in some circumstances scalar equations are easier to handle
than systems. So for practical purposes, such as computing power series
solutions, we do not recommend to turn a given scalar equation into a
system, but instead one should work with the scalar equation directly.
Many books on ordinary diﬀerential equations contain at least a chapter
or two dealing with ODE in the complex plane. Aside from the books of
Sibuya and Wasow, already mentioned in the introduction, we list the fol-
lowing more recent books in chronological order: Ince [138], Bieberbach [52],
Sch¨afke and Schmidt [236], and Hille [120].
1.1
Simply Connected Regions
Throughout this chapter, we consider a system of the form
x′ = A(z) x,
z ∈G,
(1.1)
where A(z) = [akj(z)] denotes a ν×ν matrix whose entries are holomorphic
functions in some ﬁxed region G ⊂C, which we here assume to be simply
connected. It is notationally convenient to think of such a matrix A(z) as
a holomorphic matrix-valued function in G.
Since we know from the theory of functions of a complex variable that
such functions, if (once) diﬀerentiable in an open set, are automatically
holomorphic there, it is obvious that solutions x(z) of (1.1) are always
vector-valued holomorphic functions. However, it is not clear oﬀ-hand that
a solution always is holomorphic in all of the region G, but we shall prove
this here. To begin, we show the following weaker result, which holds for
arbitrary regions G.
Lemma 1 Let a system (1.1), with A(z) holomorphic in a region G ⊂C,
be given. Then for every z0 ∈G and every x0 ∈C ν, there exists a unique
vector-valued function x(z), holomorphic in the largest disc D = D(z0, ρ) =
{z : |z −z0| < ρ } contained in G, such that
x′(z) = A(z) x(z),
z ∈D,
x(z0) = x0.
Hence we may say for short that every initial value problem has a unique
solution that is holomorphic near z0.
Proof: Assume for the moment that we were given a solution x(z), holo-
morphic in D. Then the coordinates of the vector function x(z) all can be
