1.3 Systems in General Regions
9
While the matrix C occurring in the above proof is uniquely deﬁned by
the fundamental solution X(z), the matrix M is not! We call any such M
a monodromy matrix for X(z). The unique matrix C is sometimes called
the monodromy factor for X(z). Observe that M can be any matrix with
exp[2πi M] = C. So, in general, 2πi M may have eigenvalues diﬀering by
nonzero integers, and then 2πi M is not a branch for the matrix function
log C.
For G = R, it is convenient to think of solutions of (1.1) as deﬁned on the
Riemann surface of the natural logarithm of z −z0, as described on p. 226
in the Appendix. This surface can best be visualized as a spiraling staircase
with inﬁnitely many levels in both directions. For simplicity, take z0 = 0,
then traversing a circle about the origin in the positive, i.e., counterclock-
wise, direction, will not take us back to the same point, as it would in the
complex plane, but to the one on the next level, directly above the point
where we started. Thus, while complex numbers zk = r eiϕk, r > 0, are the
same once their arguments ϕk diﬀer by integer multiples of 2π, the corre-
sponding points on the Riemann surface are diﬀerent. So strictly speaking,
instead of complex numbers z = r e2πiϕ, we deal with pairs (r, ϕ). On this
surface, the matrix zM = exp[M log z] becomes a single-valued holomorphic
function by interpreting log z = log r + iϕ.
The above proposition shows that, once we have a monodromy matrix
M, we completely understand the branching behavior of the corresponding
fundamental solution X(z). It pays to work out the general form of zM for
M = J in Jordan form, in order to understand the various cases that can
occur for the branching behavior of X(z).
The computation of monodromy matrices and/or their eigenvalues is
a major task in many applications. In principle, it should be possible to
ﬁnd them by ﬁrst computing a fundamental solution X(z) by means of
the recursions (1.9), and then iteratively re-expanding the resulting power
series to obtain the analytic continuation. In reality there is little hope of
eﬀectively doing this. So it will be useful to obtain other representations for
fundamental solutions providing more direct ways for ﬁnding monodromy
matrices. For singularities of the ﬁrst kind, which are discussed in the next
chapter, this can always be done, while for other cases this problem will
prove much more complicated.
Exercises: Throughout these exercises, let M ∈C ν×ν.
1. Verify that X(z) = zM = exp[M log z] is a fundamental solution of
x′ = z−1M x near, e.g., z0 = 1, if we select any branch for the mul-
tivalued function log z, e.g., its principal value, which is real-valued
along the positive real axis.
2. Verify that X(z) = zM in general cannot be holomorphically contin-
ued (as a single-valued holomorphic function) into all of R(0, ∞).
