14
1. Basic Properties of Solutions
4. Under the assumptions of Exercise 8 on p. 7, show that a computation
of a fundamental solution of (1.1) is equivalent to ﬁnding a funda-
mental solution of a system of dimension ν −µ and an additional
integration.
1.6
Some Additional Notation
It will be convenient for later use to say that a system (1.1) is elementary
if a matrix-valued holomorphic function B(z), for z ∈G, exists such that
B′(z) = A(z) and A(z) B(z) = B(z) A(z) hold for every z ∈G. As was
shown in Exercise 3 on p. 7 and the following one, an elementary system
has the fundamental solution X(z) = exp[B(z)]; however, such a B(z)
does not always exist, so not every system is elementary. Simple examples
of elementary systems are those with constant coeﬃcients, or systems with
diagonal coeﬃcient matrix, or the ones studied in Exercise 2 on p. 7.
In the last century or so, one of the main themes of research has been on
the behavior of solutions of (1.1) near an isolated boundary point z0 of the
region G – assuming that such points exist, which implies that G will be
multiply connected. In particular, many classical as well as recent results
concern the situation where the coeﬃcient matrix A(z) has a pole of order
r+1 at z0, and the non-negative integer r then is named the Poincar´e rank
of the system. Relatively little work has been done in case of an essential
singularity of A(z) at z0, and we shall not consider such cases here at all.
It is standard to call a system (1.1) a meromorphic system on G if the
coeﬃcient matrix A(z) is a meromorphic function on G; i.e., every point of
G is either a point of holomorphy or a pole of A(z).
In the following chapters we shall study the local behavior of solutions
of (1.1) near a pole of A(z), and to do so it suﬃces to take G equal to
a punctured disc R(z0, ρ), for some ρ > 0. We shall see that the cases of
Poincar´e rank r = 0, i.e., a simple pole of A(z) at z0, are essentially diﬀerent
from r ≥1, and we follow the standard terminology in referring to the ﬁrst
resp. second case by saying that (1.1) has a singularity of ﬁrst resp. of second
kind at z0. If A(z) is holomorphic in R(∞, ρ) = {z : |z| > ρ}, we say, in
view of 3 Exercise 2 that (1.1) has rank r at inﬁnity if B(z) = −z−2A(1/z)
has rank r at the origin. Accordingly, inﬁnity is a singularity of ﬁrst, resp.
second, kind of (1.1), if zA(z) is holomorphic, resp. has a pole, at inﬁnity.
Observe that the same holds when classifying the nature of singularity at
the origin! This fact is one of the reasons that, instead of systems (1.1), we
shall from now on consider systems obtained by multiplying both sides of
(1.1) by z.
3Observe that references to exercises within the same section are made by just giving
their number.
