30
2. Singularities of First Kind
B11(z) = A11(z) −T12(z) A21(z),
B21(z) = A21(z),
B22(z) = A21(z) T12(z) + A22(z).
Iterating this result, we are able to prove that a system with general spec-
trum can be transformed into another one that is reduced in a block struc-
ture determined by the Jordan canonical form of A0:
Proposition 3 Let a system (2.1) with general spectrum be given. As-
sume that the matrix A0 is diagonally blocked, with the diagonal blocks
having exactly one eigenvalue, and let these eigenvalues have increasing
real parts. Then an analytic transformation T(z) exists that is upper tri-
angularly blocked with respect to the block structure of A0, with diagonal
blocks identically equal to I, so that the corresponding transformed system
is lower triangularly reduced in the same block structure.
Proof: We proceed by induction with respect to the number of blocks of
A0. In the case of one such block nothing remains to prove, while for two
blocks Lemma 2 assures the existence of the transformation as stated. If
we have even more diagonal blocks in A0, we block all matrices in a coarser
block structure with two diagonal blocks by grouping several of the blocks
of A0 into one large block. Then we can again apply Lemma 2 to obtain
a system that is lower triangularly blocked of this coarser type, with two
diagonal blocks to which the induction hypothesis applies. Since diagonally
blocked analytic transformations leave the system in lower triangularly
blocked form, we can use such a transformation to put all the diagonal
blocks into the desired form. This, however, completes the proof.
2
Note that the assumptions of the above proposition can always be made
to hold by a constant transformation T(z) ≡T, putting A0 into Jordan
canonical form with the eigenvalues ordered accordingly. Hence, in princi-
ple the above proposition allows us to compute fundamental solutions of
systems with general spectrum: First, we ﬁnd an analytic transformation
to another system that is reduced and has diagonal blocks, each of which
has good spectrum. Then, we compute a fundamental solution of the new,
reduced, system by means of Theorem 5, applied to each diagonal block,
and Theorem 4. This fundamental solution will be investigated further:
Proposition 4 Let a system (2.1) be given that is reduced of some type
(ν1, . . . , νµ), with Ajj(0) having exactly one eigenvalue λj, and assume that
these eigenvalues have increasing real parts. Moreover, let Akj(0) = 0 for
k > j. Finally, let κj ∈Z be such that 0 ≤Re λj −κj < 1. Then there
exists a triangularly blocked fundamental solution X(z) of (2.1) of the form
X(z) = T(z) zK zM,
where T(z) is a lower triangularly blocked analytic transformation, M is
a lower triangularly blocked constant matrix with diagonal blocks equal to
Ajj(0) −κjI, and K = diag [κ1Iν1, . . . , κµIνµ].
