2.4 Systems with General Spectrum
31
Proof:
Using Theorem 5 (p. 19), we compute fundamental solutions
Xjj(z) = Tjj(z) zAjj(0) for the diagonal blocks of our system, and then
compute the blocks below the diagonal using Theorem 4 (p. 12), thus ob-
taining some lower triangularly blocked fundamental solution X(z). Obvi-
ously, X(z) has a monodromy factor that is blocked in the same way, and
according to Theorem 71 (p. 241), so is the unique monodromy matrix M
with eigenvalues in [0, 1). Its diagonal blocks Mjj are monodromy matrices
for the diagonal blocks of X(z), having eigenvalues with real parts in [0, 1).
Another such monodromy matrix is Ajj(0) −κjI; hence, according to the
uniqueness part of Theorem 71, we have Mjj = Ajj(0) −κjI. Deﬁning
T(z) = X(z) z−M z−K, we conclude that T(z) is single-valued at the ori-
gin, and its diagonal blocks are even holomorphic there, while the others
could be singular there. Direct estimates of (1.15) (p. 13) show that the
blocks of T(z) below the diagonal cannot have an essential singularity at
the origin. Moreover, the deﬁnition of T(z) implies
z T ′(z) = A(z) T(z) −T(z) B(z),
(2.15)
with B(z) = K +zKM z−K. Since κ1, . . . , κµ are weakly increasing and M
is lower triangularly blocked, we conclude that B(z) is holomorphic at the
origin, and B(0) and A(0) have the same diagonal blocks. For the blocks
Tkj(z), 1 ≤j < k ≤ν, we obtain from (2.15) that
z T ′
kj(z) = Akk(z) Tkj(z) −Tkj(z) Bjj(z) + Rkj(z),
(2.16)
with Rkj(z) depending only upon such blocks of T(z) that are closer to, or
on, the diagonal. Assume that we have shown Rkj(z) to be holomorphic at
the origin, which is correct for k −j = 1, since then Rkj(z) involves only
diagonal blocks of T(z). Then, let m ≥0 be the pole order of Tkj(z) and
T (kj)
−m denote the corresponding coeﬃcient in its Laurent expansion. If m
were positive, then (2.16) would imply [mI + Akk(0)] T (kj)
−m = T (kj)
−m Ajj(0).
This, however, would imply T (kj)
−m = 0, owing to our assumption on the
eigenvalues of the diagonal blocks. Hence m = 0 follows; i.e., Tkj(z) is
holomorphic at the origin. Therefore, by induction with respect to k −j we
ﬁnd that all blocks of T(z) must be holomorphic at the origin.
2
Together, the above two propositions clarify the structure of fundamental
solutions in case of general spectrum: First, we use a constant transforma-
tion to bring A0 into Jordan form, with eigenvalues ordered appropriately.
Then, we compute an upper-triangularly blocked analytic transformation,
such that the transformed equation is lower triangularly blocked. Finally,
we ﬁnd a lower triangularly blocked analytic transformation for which the
transformed equation has an explicit solution zK zM. We state this main re-
sult of the current section in the following theorem, before we add a remark
concerning a more eﬃcient way of computing this fundamental solution.
