40
3. Highest-Level Formal Solutions
However, except for analytic transformations, the transformed system will
in general not be of the same form as (3.1): In case of a formal analytic
transformation the coeﬃcient matrix will be given as a series of the form
(3.1), but the radius of convergence of this series will in general be equal to
zero. Systems where this happens, or to be precise: where this may happen,
will be named formal systems and denoted as
z x′ = ˆA(z) x,
ˆA(z) = zr
∞

n=0
An z−n.
(3.3)
In particular, if for suﬃciently large c, K > 0 we have
∥An∥≤c Kn Γ(1 + sn),
n ≥0,
(3.4)
then we shall call (3.3) a formal system of Gevrey order s. Applying a
formal analytic or meromorphic transformation ˆT(z) to (3.3) and denoting
the resulting formal system by z˜x = ˆB(z) ˜x, the coeﬃcient matrices are
related by the purely formal identity
z ˆT ′(z) = ˆA(z) ˆT(z) −ˆT(z) ˆB(z).
(3.5)
Using Exercise 2, we see that a formal analytic transformation of Gevrey
order s transforms a system that is formal of Gevrey order s and of Poincar´e
rank r into another such system. Shearing transformations, or q-analytic
transformations, take (3.1) or (3.3) into a system that, after a change of
the independent variable as in Exercise 5, is of the same form, but perhaps
of larger rank. Scalar exponential shifts also increase the Poincar´e rank of
the system, except when the degree of q(z) is at most r.
For meromorphic transformations, we prove the following well-known
result, showing that they are a combination of analytic ones and a shearing
transformation:
Proposition 5 Every formal meromorphic transformation ˆT(z) can be
factored as
ˆT(z) = ˆT1(z) diag [zk1, . . . , zkν] ˆT2(z),
where ˆT1(z), ˆT2(z) are formal analytic transformations and kj ∈Z, k1 ≤
k2 ≤. . . ≤kν. When ˆT(z) is of Gevrey order s ≥0, then both ˆTj(z) can be
chosen to be of Gevrey order s as well.
Proof: We proceed by induction with respect to ν: For ν = 1, the statement
obviously holds with ˆT1(z) ≡1 and K = k = deg ˆT(z), where deg ˆT(z)
denotes the highest power of z occurring in the series ˆT(z). For ν ≥2, let
ˆT(z) = [ˆtjk(z)] and take kν = deg ˆT(z) = maxj,k deg ˆtjk(z). Interchanging
rows and columns, we can arrange that kν = deg ˆtνν(z). Adding suitable
multiples of the last row/column to previous ones, the factors used being
