3.1 Formal Transformations
41
formal power series in z−1, and then dividing the last row by a power series
with nonzero constant term, we can arrange that ˆtνν(z) ≡zkν, ˆtνj(z) =
ˆtjν(z) ≡0, 1 ≤j ≤ν −1. All the steps used to obtain this form can be
interpreted as multiplication from the left- or right-hand side by formal
analytic transformations, which are of Gevrey order s ≥0 if ˆT(z) is formal
of Gevrey order s. The induction hypothesis then completes the proof. 2
While the usefulness of formal transformations is not clear oﬀhand, the
other types of transformations take (3.1) into an equivalent system in the
sense that it suﬃces to compute a fundamental solution of either one of the
two equations, since then one for the other system is obtained through the
transformation. We shall see in Chapter 8 that the same applies to formal
transformations of Gevrey order s as well, since we shall give a holomorphic
interpretation to the formal series by which formal transformations are
deﬁned. In this chapter, however, we shall take a formal approach, meaning
that we most of the time disregard the question of convergence of formal
power series occurring in calculations, but we will always verify estimates
of the form (3.2) resp. (3.4).
Exercises:
1. Use the Beta Integral (p. 229) to show Γ(1+x)Γ(1+y)/Γ(1+x+y) =
x B(x, 1 + y) ≤1 for x, y > 0.
2. If ˆT1(z), ˆT2(z) are formal analytic transformations of Gevrey order
s ≥0, show the same for ˆT1(z) ˆT2(z).
3. For a formal analytic transformation ˆT(z) of Gevrey order s, show
that ˆT −1(z) is of Gevrey order s, too.
4. Show that every formal meromorphic transformation can be factored
as T(z) ˆT(z), with a formal analytic transformation ˆT(z) and a ter-
minating meromorphic transformation T(z). Conclude that in Propo-
sition 5 we may take ˆT1(z) to converge.
5. Show that the system equivalent to (3.3) by means of the change of
variable z = wq, q ∈N, has Poincar´e rank qr.
6. Show that for s > 0 the following statements both are equivalent to
(3.2), possibly for diﬀerent values of c, K:
(a) ∥Tn∥≤c Kn nsn, n ≥1.
(b) lim sup
n
∥Tn∥/Γ(1 + sn) < ∞.
