3.3 Nilpotent Leading Term
45
4. In case the leading term A0 has all distinct eigenvalues, show that
(3.3) has a formal fundamental solution of the form
ˆX(z) = ˆT(z) zΛ eQ(z),
with a formal analytic transformation ˆT(z), being of Gevrey order
˜s = max{s, 1/r} in case (3.3) is formal of Gevrey order s, a constant
diagonal matrix Λ, and a diagonal matrix Q(z) with polynomials
along the diagonal satisfying Q(0) = 0. Explicitly describe an algo-
rithm for computing the matrices Λ and Q(z) and any ﬁnite number
of coeﬃcients of ˆT(z).
3.3
Nilpotent Leading Term
In this section, we are concerned with formal systems (3.3) whose leading
term only has one eigenvalue, so that the Splitting Lemma does not apply.
A scalar exponential shift then reduces such a system to one with nilpotent
leading term, and such a transformation commutes with every other one we
are using here. Hence it is without loss of generality when, for notational
convenience, we restrict our discussion to systems (3.3) having a nilpotent
leading term A0 ̸= 0. We may also assume A0 in Jordan canonical form
A0 = diag [N1, . . . , Nµ],
(3.9)
with nilpotent Jordan blocks of weakly decreasing sizes s1 ≥. . . ≥sµ – if
this were not so, we could apply a constant transformation. In what follows,
we shall block ˆA(z) = [ ˆAjk(z)] according to the block structure of the ma-
trix A0, and similarly for transformations resp. corresponding transformed
equations. Our goal is to simplify the given system, in a sense to be made
clear later, using ﬁnitely many transformations that are either terminating
analytic ones, or shearing transformations, or scalar exponential shifts. Ow-
ing to the nature of the transformations we see that in case the system we
begin with is convergent, then the one we obtain in the end converges, too.
Hence, divergent transformations or systems will only occur when applying
the Splitting Lemma!
As a ﬁrst step we shall try to ﬁnd terminating analytic transformations,
resp. unramiﬁed shearings, that leave the Poincar´e rank r of (3.3) un-
changed, but possibly increase the matrix rank of A0 or, in general, leave
the ranks of Ak
0 ﬁxed, for 1 ≤k ≤j −1, and increase the rank of Aj
0. To
have a way of expressing this, we shall use the following terminology:
Order Relation for Nilpotent Matrices
Given any two nilpotent matrices N, ˜N ∈C ν×ν, we say that ˜N
is superior to N, if for some j ≥1 we have rank N k = rank ˜N k
for 1 ≤k ≤j −1, and rank N j < rank ˜N j.
