46
3. Highest-Level Formal Solutions
Note that the ranks of the powers determine the structure of a nilpotent
Jordan matrix up to a permutation of its blocks, so if we restrict ourselves
to nilpotent Jordan matrices whose Jordan blocks have decreasing sizes,
then the above relation becomes a total order, and it is easily seen that the
nilpotent matrix with rank equal to ν −1 is the maximal element for this
order relation.
Classically, the case of nilpotent leading matrices has been treated by
ﬁnding transformations reducing the rank of A0, or if possible, even making
A0 = 0, hence lowering the Poincar´e rank. Here we do the opposite, which
at ﬁrst glance appears unreasonable. However, we shall see that this may be
considered as an example of what sometimes is called “worst case analysis,”
since in case of a maximal leading term we shall ﬁnd that the system has
a very particular structure.
Finding the transformations that will produce a superior leading term
requires two steps, the ﬁrst one being the following analogue to the Splitting
Lemma; see, e.g., Wasow [281] for an equivalent version.
Lemma 4 Let a formal system (3.3) with leading term as in (3.9) be given.
Then for every n0 ∈N there exists an analytic transformation of the form
T(z) = I + [Tjk(z)], blocked according to the block structure of A0, with
matrices Tjk(z) = n0
1 T (jk)
n
z−n, such that the coeﬃcient matrix of the
transformed system has the form ˆB(z) = zrA0 + [ ˆBjk(z)], with ˆBjk(z) =
zr ∞
1 B(jk)
n
z−n, and so that for 1 ≤n ≤n0 the coeﬃcients B(jk)
n
• have all zero rows except for the ﬁrst one in case 1 ≤j ≤k ≤µ,
• have all zero columns except for the last one in case 1 ≤k < j ≤µ.
The transformation T(z) is unique if we require for 1 ≤n ≤n0 that
• all T (jk)
n
have vanishing last row in case 1 ≤j ≤k ≤µ,
• all T (jk)
n
have vanishing ﬁrst column in case 1 ≤k < j ≤µ.
Proof: Insertion into (3.5) implies the following identities for the coeﬃ-
cients of the blocks of ˆA(z), ˆB(z), T(z):
Nj T (jk)
n
−T (jk)
n
Nk = B(jk)
n
+ R(jk)
n
,
n ≥1, 1 ≤j, k ≤µ,
(3.10)
where R(jk)
n
only involves blocks of Tm, Bm with m < n. For n ≤n0,
Lemma 25 (p. 213) implies existence of a unique matrix B(jk)
n
with nonzero
entries only in the ﬁrst row, resp. last column, such that (3.10) has a so-
lution T (jk)
n
. This solution is unique if we require its last row, resp. ﬁrst
column, to vanish. Which case applies depends on the shape of the block,
i.e., upon its position on or above, resp. below, the block-diagonal. For
n ≥n0 + 1, we have T (jk)
n
= 0; hence take B(jk)
n
so that (3.10) holds, thus
completing the proof.
2
