50
3. Highest-Level Formal Solutions
Proof:
It can be concluded from ˆB(z) = T −1(z) [ ˆA(z) T(z) −zT ′(z)]
and T(ze2πi) = T(z) D that ˆB(ze2πi) = D−1 ˆB(z) D, from which follows
(3.14). This then implies det(Bp −xI) = e2πiνp/q det(Bp −e−2πip/qxI),
showing that the spectrum of Bp is closed with respect to multiplication
with e−2πip/q, and since p and q are assumed to be co-prime, the same
follows for e2πi/q.
2
Hence, according to the above lemma, the only case where we did not
make any progress is when Bp, for the maximal admissible value p/q, is
nilpotent. This case, however, cannot occur when the value n0 has been
large enough: Imagine that n0 ≥ν, then for n ≤ν the coeﬃcients An are
diagonally blocked. In this case either 1 is admissible, or for the maximal
admissible value p/q < 1 we have a leading term Bp which is a direct sum
of matrices of the form Nj + Cj, with Nj as in (3.9), and Cj having zero
rows except for possibly the ﬁrst one. According to maximality of p/q, not
all Cj can be the zero matrix, hence Bp cannot be nilpotent, as follows
from Exercise 1.
We summarize the result of the preceding discussion as follows:
Theorem 10 Given a formal system (3.3) with a nilpotent leading term,
then one of the following two cases occurs:
(a) There exists a terminating meromorphic transformation T(z) so that
the transformed system has Poincar´e rank smaller than r.
(b) There exist a q ∈N, not larger than the order of nilpotency of the
leading term A0, and a terminating q-meromorphic transformation
T(z), so that the transformed system has a non-nilpotent leading term
whose spectrum is closed under multiplication by e2πi/q.
The minimal value for q and a transformation T(z) can in both cases be
found in an algorithmic manner following the steps described below.
What we have shown so far can be summarized in algorithmic form: Let a
system (3.1), or more generally an arbitrary formal system (3.3), be given:
1. If the Poincar´e rank of (3.3) is zero, or if the dimension ν equals one,
stop. If not, ﬁnd the number of distinct eigenvalues of the leading
term A0; if it turns out to be larger than one, stop. Otherwise, use
a scalar exponential shift to go to a system with a nilpotent leading
term and continue with step 2, taking the parameter n0 = 1.
2. Normalize the system up to z−n0.
(a) If (3.11) does not hold, use an unramiﬁed shearing transforma-
tion as in Proposition 6 (p. 47), resp. Theorem 9 to go to a
system with superior leading term, and continue with step 2
and value n0 = 1.
