52
3. Highest-Level Formal Solutions
Exercises:
1. For a nilpotent Jordan block N and a constant matrix C with nonzero
entries in the ﬁrst row only, compute the characteristic polynomial of
A = N +C and show that A is nilpotent if and only if C = 0. Matrices
of this form will also be called companion matrices, although they are
slightly diﬀerent from the ones named so before.
2. For the simplest nontrivial situation of ν = 2, verify Theorem 10
(p. 50) and give explicit conditions under which each case occurs.
3. For a system (3.3) with a nilpotent leading term, give examples show-
ing that the value for q in Theorem 10 (p. 50) can be any natural
number strictly smaller than the order of nilpotency of A0.
4. For a system (3.1) with nilpotent leading term, let X(z) be an arbi-
trary fundamental solution of (3.1). For S as in Exercise 4 on p. 15,
show existence of c, a, δ > 0 so that
∥X(z)∥≤c ea|z|r−δ,
z ∈S.
3.4
Transformation to Rational Form
Given a system (3.1), then in case (b) of Theorem 10 (p. 50) we can ﬁnd a
transformation which, after a change of variable, leads to a system of the
same kind, but with a leading term having several eigenvalues. In this case,
according to the Splitting Lemma, we can ﬁnd a formal analytic transfor-
mation of Gevrey order s, with 1/s being the Poincar´e rank of the new
system, which splits this system into several smaller blocks. To continue,
we wish to show that these formal systems may always be transformed into
convergent ones, using formal analytic transformations of Gevrey order s
– in fact, we shall show that the transformed system can be such that only
ﬁnitely many of its coeﬃcients are nonzero, hence is a rational function
with poles (at most) at inﬁnity and the origin.
Theorem 11 Let (3.3) be a formal system of Gevrey order s = 1/r. Then
for every suﬃciently large N, M ∈N, a formal analytic transformation of
Gevrey order s exists, which is of the form ˆT(z) = I + ∞
n=N Tnz−n, so
that the transformed system has a coeﬃcient matrix of the form
B(z) = zr
N+M

n=0
Bn z−n.
