3.5 Highest-Level Formal Solutions
55
that the previous theorem and the other results of this section reduce the
problem of ﬁnding a formal fundamental solution for a system (3.1) to the
same problem for a ﬁnite number of systems of the same kind, but of strictly
smaller dimension. In the next section we brieﬂy indicate a modiﬁcation of
the deﬁnition of the term formal fundamental solution that was ﬁrst given
in a diﬀerent, but equivalent, formulation in [8] and which is very natural to
consider, in particular in the discussion of Stokes’ phenomena in sections to
follow. Since Stokes’ multipliers also can at best be approximated, it does
not hurt in this context to have only approximate values for the coeﬃcients
of the system.
Exercises: In the following exercises, let a system (3.3) of Gevrey order
s = 1/r be given.
1. Assume that all coeﬃcients An of (3.3) commute with one another.
Prove that then Theorem 11 (p. 52) holds, with N = 1 and M = r−1
and a transformation ˆT(z) commuting both with ˆA(z) and B(z). Note
that this in particular settles the case of dimension ν = 1.
2. Assuming that A0 is diagonal, ﬁnd the pole order p of the inverse
matrix corresponding to the left hand side of (3.18).
3.5
Highest-Level Formal Solutions
The classical notion of regular versus irregular singularities distinguishes
between cases where fundamental solutions have only a moderate growth
rate, resp. grow exponentially. As shall become clear later on, the second
case can naturally be divided into two subcases: Sometimes, the exponen-
tial growth is entirely due to the presence of one scalar exponential poly-
nomial in a formal fundamental solution, while in other cases several such
polynomials occur. Therefore, we shall use the following terminology:
1. We say that inﬁnity is an almost regular-singular point of (3.1) if
one can ﬁnd a terminating meromorphic transformation T(z) so that
the transformed system has the form B(z) = zr ∞
n=0 Bnz−n, with
Bj = λj I for 0 ≤j ≤r −1. Note that then a scalar exponential shift
transforms this system into one having a singularity of ﬁrst kind at
inﬁnity.
2. We say that inﬁnity is an essentially irregular singularity of (3.1) if
it is not almost regular-singular.
3. A formal q-meromorphic transformation ˆF(z), q ∈N, is called a for-
mal fundamental solution of highest level for (3.1), if the following
holds:
