3.5 Highest-Level Formal Solutions
57
• We shall say that the data pairs of any HLFFS are closed with re-
spect to continuation, provided that to every pair (qj(z), sj), there
is a (unique) pair (q˜j(z), s˜j) with q˜j(z) = qj(ze2πi) and s˜j = sj.
Obviously this is equivalent to saying that λj = 0 whenever j is
not a multiple of q, and that the pairs (λ(p)
j , sj) are closed with
respect to multiplication by exp[2πi/q], i.e., for suitable ˜j we have
(λ(p)
˜j , s˜j) = (λ(p)
j
exp[2πi/q], sj). We shall show in Chapter 8 that
this always holds. Also note that, owing to the fact that p, q are co-
prime when p ̸= 0, we can recover p, q from the data pairs of an
HLFFS.
Assuming that inﬁnity is an essentially irregular singularity implies that in
the algorithm described in Section 3.3 we end with case 1. This leads to
the following result:
Theorem 12 Every system (3.1) having an essentially irregular singular-
ity at inﬁnity possesses an HLFFS whose data pairs are closed with respect
to continuation.
Proof: From the algorithm formulated in Section 3.3, followed by an ap-
plication of the Splitting Lemma together with Theorem 11 (p. 52), we
conclude existence of a transformation x = eq(z) ˆT(z) ˜x, with a polynomial
q(z) of degree at most r and a formal q-meromorphic transformation ˆT(z)
of Gevrey order s = q/(qr −p), p ≥0 and co-prime with q provided p ̸= 0,
such that the transformed system, after the change of variable z = wq,
has a coeﬃcient matrix of the form ˜B(w) = wqr−p ˜n0
0
˜
Bn z−n, with lead-
ing term ˜B0 having the form required for Bp. The scalar exponential shift
exp[−q(wq)] then leads to a system satisfying all the requirements for con-
cluding that ˆT(z) is an HLFFS, and its data pairs are closed with respect
to continuation.
2
The results of the previous sections enable us to compute an HLFFS in
the following sense:
• First, follow the steps in the algorithm on p. 50 to compute a system
whose leading term has several eigenvalues.
• Next, apply the Splitting Lemma to obtain several formal systems of
Gevrey order 1/˜r, with ˜r being their Poincar´e rank.
• Finally, apply the iteration outlined in the proof of Theorem 11 (p. 52)
to compute corresponding convergent systems; of these systems the
ﬁrst N coeﬃcients will be known exactly, since they agree with cor-
responding coeﬃcients of the formal systems, while the remaining
nonzero coeﬃcients can in principal be computed up to any degree
of accuracy.
