62
4. Asymptotic Power Series
a limit when approaching the origin along curves1 staying within a closed
subsector of G, while no limit may exist for general curves in G. Similarly,
statements upon continuity, resp. a limit, as z →∞are always meant to
imply that convergence is uniform in closed subsectors.
We say that f, holomorphic in some sectorial region G, is holomorphic
at the origin, if f can be holomorphically continued into a sector S ⊃G
of opening more than 2π, and if f then is single-valued in S and bounded
at the origin; the well-known result on removable singularities then implies
that f has a convergent power series expansion about the origin; for the
notion of essential singularities, poles, and removable singularities, compare
Exercise 2 on p. 223.
We say that f is diﬀerentiable at the origin, if a complex number f(0)
exists so that the quotient (f(z)−f(0))/z is continuous at the origin, in the
sense deﬁned above, and then its limit as z →0 in G is denoted by f ′(0)
and named the derivative of f at the origin. In the exercises below, we shall
show that diﬀerentiability of f at the origin is equivalent to continuity of
f ′ there, and that f ′(0) is equal to the limit of f ′(z) as z →0 in G.
Obviously, diﬀerentiability implies continuity of the function at the origin,
but a function can be diﬀerentiable at the origin without being holomorphic
there – for this, compare one of the exercises below. Moreover, we say that
f is n-times diﬀerentiable at the origin, if its (n −1)st derivative f (n−1)(z)
is diﬀerentiable at the origin. As follows from the exercises below, this is
equivalent to f (n)(z) being continuous at the origin.
Let S = S(d, α) be a sector of inﬁnite radius, and let f(z) be holomorphic
in S. Suppose that k > 0 exists for which the following holds true:
To every ϕ with |d−ϕ| < α/2 there exist ρ, c1, c2 > 0 such that for every
z with |z| ≥ρ, |d −arg z| ≤ϕ,
∥f(z)∥≤c1 exp[c2|z|k].
Then we shall say that f(z) is of exponential growth at most k (in S).
This notion compares to that of (exponential) order as follows: If f(z) is of
exponential growth at most k (in S), then it either is of order less than k,
or of order equal to k and of ﬁnite type, and vice versa (see the Appendix
for the deﬁnition of order and type, and formulas relating both to the
coeﬃcients of an entire function). The set of all functions f, holomorphic
and of exponential growth at most k in S and continuous at the origin,
shall be denoted by A(k)(S, E ). As an example, we mention Mittag-Leﬄer’s
function Eα(z), deﬁned on p. 233. It is an entire function of exponential
order k = 1/α and ﬁnite type (equal to one); hence it is of exponential
growth (at most) k in every sector of inﬁnite radius. More generally, if
fn ∈E , n ≥0, are such that for some c > 0 we have ∥fn∥≤cn, n ≥0,
1Note that a curve is given by an arbitrary continuous mapping x(t), a ≤t ≤b, while
the term path means a rectiﬁable curve, i.e., a curve of ﬁnite length.
