66
4. Asymptotic Power Series
(b) Suppose that the opening of G is larger than 2π and that f(z) is single-
valued. Then f(z) is holomorphic at the origin, and ˆf converges and
coincides with the power series expansion of f(z) at the origin.
Proof:
(a) Observe z rf(z, N + 1) = rf(z, N) −fN; hence rf(z, N + 1)
bounded at the origin implies (4.4).
(b) Under our assumptions, f(z) is a single-valued holomorphic function
in a punctured disc around the origin and remains bounded as z →0. Hence
the origin is a removable singularity of f, i.e., f(z) can be expanded into its
power series about the origin. It follows right from the deﬁnition that the
power series expansion is, at the same time, an asymptotic expansion, and
from (a) we conclude that an asymptotic expansion is uniquely determined
by f(z). This proves ˆf(z) to converge and be the power series expansion
for f(z).
2
The following result shows that existence of an asymptotic expansion is
equivalent to f’s being inﬁnitely often diﬀerentiable at the origin. However,
observe that, unlike the case of holomorphic functions, existence of some
derivative at the origin does not imply existence of higher derivatives.
Proposition 8 Let f be holomorphic in a sectorial region G. Then the
following statements are equivalent:
(a) f(z) ∼= ˆf(z) = ∞
0 fn zn in G.
(b) The function f is inﬁnitely often diﬀerentiable at the origin, and
f (n)(0) = n! fn for n ≥0.
(c) All derivatives f (n)(z) are continuous at the origin, and
f (n)(z) −→n! fn,
G ∋z →0,
n ≥0.
Proof: For the equivalence of (b) and (c), compare Exercises 1 and 2 on
p. 63. Assuming (a), observe that according to Cauchy’s integral formula
for derivatives
n!
2πi

rf(w, n + 1)
(1 −z/w)n+1 dw = f (n)(z) −n! fn,
integrating along a circle around z. For z in a closed subsector ¯S of G, the
radius of this circle can be taken to be ε|z|, for some ﬁxed ε, 0 < ε < 1,
depending on ¯S but independent of z. Thus, w/z = 1 + εeiφ for some real
number φ, so that the denominator of the integral can be bounded from
below by some positive constant independent of z, but depending on ¯S.
The standard type of estimate implies that the right-hand side tends to
