98
6. Summable Power Series
has the form SA( xk) = limT →∞
∞
k=0 ak(T) xk. If the series we want
to sum is a formal power series, hence xk = fk zk, then ∞
k=0 ak(T) fk zk,
in case of convergence for, say, |z| < ρ, deﬁnes a family of holomorphic
functions a(z; T) on D = D(0, ρ). It then is natural to restrict ourselves to
cases where convergence for T →∞is locally uniform in z, at least for z in
some subregion G of D, so that we obtain a holomorphic function f(z) =
limT →∞a(z; T) on G. In this case we say that the formal power series ˆf(z) is
A-summable on the region G, and we shall refer to the function (SA ˆf)(z) =
f(z) as the sum of ˆf(z), in the sense of the summation method A. Aside
from the holomorphy of the sum, however, we need more properties of our
summability method in order to make it suitable for diﬀerential equations:
Suppose we know that the formal series ˆf(z) satisﬁes some linear diﬀerential
equation, and we have seen earlier that the radius of convergence of such a
formal solution can be zero. If ˆf(z) is indeed summable to f(z) on G, we
should like to conclude from general properties of the summation method
that f(z) also solves the diﬀerential equation. Moreover, the origin should
be a boundary point of G, and we should like to conclude that f(z) is
asymptotic to ˆf(z), perhaps of some Gevrey order s > 0. Thus, in order
to make a summability method suitable for formal solutions of ODE, we
require
• that its summability domain X is a diﬀerential algebra, containing
all convergent power series,
• that the functional S is a homomorphism, and so is not only linear,
but maps products to products and derivatives to derivatives, and
• that the map J, deﬁned on p. 67, inverts S.
For more details, see Ramis’s discussion of such abstract summation pro-
cesses in [229].
In particular, the requirement that products be summed to products is
rarely satisﬁed for general summation methods, but we shall see that k-
summability does have all the required properties, making it an ideal tool
for treating formal solutions of ODE – except that it is not powerful enough
to sum all formal series arising as solutions of ODE!
A trivial example of a summation method satisfying all the requirements
listed above is as follows: Let X = E {z} and take S = S , mapping each
convergent power series to its natural sum. Clearly, this method is too
weak in that it applies to convergent series only. Constructing a summa-
bility method suitable for formal solutions of ODE may also be viewed
as ﬁnding a way of extending S to larger diﬀerential algebras, since an-
other natural requirement to make is that for convergent power series a
summation method produces the natural sum.
