124
8. Solutions of Highest Level
f(z) is the k-sum in direction d of a power series ˆf(z) in inverse powers
of z, then f(z) is holomorphic in a sectorial region G(d, α) (near inﬁnity)
of bisecting direction d and opening α > π/k, and f(z) can be represented
by a Laplace integral (5.1), with z replaced by 1/z and the direction of
integration τ close to −d. So here, turning the path of integration in the
positive sense leads to holomorphic continuation of f(z) in the negative
sense, and vice versa.
Because HLFFS in general are series in some root of z−1, we need to
generalize the notion of k-summability to q-meromorphic transformations,
or more generally to arbitrary formal Laurent series in the variable z−1/q:
• A power series in z−1/q will be called k-summable in direction d, if the
series obtained by the change of variable z = wq is qk-summable in
direction d/q. Compare Exercise 2 on p. 72 to see that this deﬁnition
gives good sense even if the series we start with accidentally happens
to not contain any roots.
• A formal Laurent series ∞
n=−m fn z−n is called k-summable in di-
rection d if and only if its power series part ˆf(z) = ∞
n=0 fn z−n is
summable in this sense, with the k-sum of the Laurent series equal
to the k-sum of the power series part plus the ﬁnite principle part
−1
n=−m fn z−n. Compare this to Exercise 5 on p. 72.
8.1
The Improved Splitting Lemma
In the construction of HLFFS we had to consider formal analytic transfor-
mations in two places: In the Splitting Lemma in Section 3.2, and later in
Section 3.4, ﬁnding a transformation so that the new system is rational.
To proceed, we ﬁrst reconsider the proof of the Splitting Lemma and show
that, beginning with a convergent system (3.1), the transformation as well
as the transformed system are r-summable, and we can even completely
describe the set of singular directions.
Lemma 11 (Improved Splitting Lemma) Consider a convergent sys-
tem (3.1) (p. 37) satisfying the assumptions of the Splitting Lemma on p. 42.
Then the formal matrix power series ˆT12(z) and the block ˆB22(z) of the coef-
ﬁcient matrix of the transformed system are r-summable in every direction
d except for the ﬁnitely many singular ones of the form −rd = arg(µ1 −µ2)
mod 2π, with µj an eigenvalue of A(jj)
0
. The same statement, but with µ1, µ2
interchanged, holds for ˆT21(z) and ˆB11(z).
Proof: Analogously to the proof of Theorem 11 (p. 52), we deﬁne T(u) =
∞
1 T12 un−r/Γ(n/r), B(u) = ∞
1 B22 un−r/Γ(n/r), and (slightly abus-
ing notation) Ajk(u) = ∞
1 A(jk)
n
un−r/Γ(n/r). Then ur−1 Ajk(u) are en-
