132
8. Solutions of Highest Level
• the Nm are nilpotent Jordan matrices whose blocks are ordered so
that they increase in size.
Therefore, we shall always assume that for a formal fundamental solution
ˆF(z) the transformed system already is of the form (8.5). The system (8.5)
then has a unique fundamental solution of the form
Y (z) = diag [eq1(z)zJ1, . . . , eqµ(z)zJµ],
with z q′
m(z) = bm(w) −bm(0), and Jm = bm(0)Ism + Nm. So each qm
is a polynomial in the qth root of z without constant term, and Jm a
constant matrix in Jordan form, with a single eigenvalue whose real part
is in [0, 1/q). In analogy to the phrase used for HLFFS, we call the pairs
(qj(z), Jj), 1 ≤j ≤µ, the data pairs of the FFS. Recall that the bm(w)
were all distinct to see the same for the data pairs. Moreover, note that
the enumeration of the data pairs is always chosen to correspond to the
enumeration of the bm(w) in (8.5). In particular, a renumeration of the
data pairs reﬂects in a suitable permutation of the columns of the FFS. As
for HLFFS, the data pairs of a FFS will be shown to be closed with respect
to continuation, meaning that to every pair (qm(z), Jm) there exists a pair
(qκ(z), Jκ) with qκ(z) = qm(ze2πi) and Jm = Jκ. This κ even is uniquely
determined by m, because the data pairs are all distinct!
We now show existence of FFS. For simplicity, we restrict ourselves to
convergent systems (3.1); however, one can check that the same statements
remain correct for formal systems (3.3).
Proposition 20 Every system (3.1) (p. 37) has a FFS of the form de-
scribed above. Moreover, the following always holds:
(a) For any two FFS of (3.1), the data pairs coincide up to renumeration.
(b) The data pairs of any FFS are closed with respect to continuation.
(c) For any two FFS ˆF1(z), ˆF2(z), assume that their data pairs coincide,
which can always be brought about by suitably permuting the columns
of any one of the FFS. Then ˆF −1
1
(z) ˆF2(z) is diagonally blocked of
type (s1, . . . , sµ) and constant.
Proof: To show existence of FFS, ﬁrst assume that inﬁnity is an al-
most regular-singular point. Then by deﬁnition, a terminating meromor-
phic transformation T(z) and a polynomial q(z) of degree at most r exist,
so that the combined transformation x = eq(z) T(z) ˜x leads to a system
with a regular-singular point at inﬁnity. According to the results of Sec-
tion 2, in particular Theorem 6 (p. 32),2 there exists another meromorphic
transformation ˜T(z), transforming this new system into one with constant
2Use a change of variable z = 1/w to transfer the singularity to the origin.
