134
8. Solutions of Highest Level
The above result shows the existence, and describes the degree of free-
dom, of FFS. To describe their summability properties, it is necessary to
introduce some notation: For an arbitrary nonzero polynomial p(z) in some
root of z, let deg p stand for the rational exponent of the highest power of z
occurring in p(z). Given the data pairs of a FFS, we introduce the rational
numbers
djm = deg(pj −pm),
if pj(z) ̸≡pm(z), 1 ≤j, m ≤µ.
They form a ﬁnite, possibly empty, set of rational numbers, which are all
positive, since by deﬁnition of the pj their constant terms all vanish. We
write this set in the form {k1 > k2 > . . . > kℓ> 0}, referring to it as
the level set of the FFS ˆF(z). The integer ℓ≥0 will be referred to as the
number of levels of ˆF(z). In case ℓ≥1, we shall call k1 the highest level
of ˆF(z). From now on, consider data pairs with ℓ≥1. For 1 ≤µ ≤ℓ, a
number d ∈R will be called singular of level µ, provided that polynomials
pj, pm exist for which
pj(z) −pm(z) = pjm zkµ + lower powers,
arg pjm = −d kµ.
(8.6)
In other words: exp[pj(z) −pm(z)] has degree kµ and maximal growth
rate along the ray arg z = d. Furthermore, we write j ∼m of level µ,
if deg(pj −pm) < kµ. This way, we obtain a number of equivalence rela-
tions that become ﬁner with increasing µ, in the sense that fewer numbers
m are equivalent. We now say that the data pairs (qm(z), Jm) are ordered
provided that polynomials with indices that are equivalent of level µ come
consecutively, for every µ = 1, . . . , ℓ. Note that we can always rearrange
the columns of the FFS ˆF(z) and simultanuously permute its data pairs,
so that ﬁrst polynomials whose indices are equivalent of level µ = 1 come
consecutively, then further permute pairs within each equivalence class of
level 1 to make polynomials come together whenever their indices are equiv-
alent of level 2, and so on. In other words, every system (3.1) has a FFS
with ordered data pairs.
Consider now an ordered set of data pairs. Then to each equivalence
relation of level µ, there corresponds a block structure of arbitrary ν × ν
matrices, by grouping their rows and columns together once their indices
are equivalent of that level. This block structure will be referred to as the
µth block structure, or the block structure of level µ. In particular, for µ = 1
we speak of the block structure of highest level. For convenience, we also
introduce the trivial block structure of level zero, where we do not subdivide
matrices at all. These block structures were studied in [34, 35] under the
name iterated block structure.
Using this terminology, we can now formulate the following basic result
on FFS:
Theorem 43 For an arbitrary FFS ˆF(z) of a system (3.1) (p. 37), the
following holds:
