8.4 Factorization of Formal Fundamental Solutions
135
(a) The FFS has empty level set if and only if inﬁnity is an almost
regular-singular point of (3.1), and in this case ˆF(z) converges.
(b) If the number ℓof its levels is positive, then its highest level is not
larger than the Poincar´e rank r of (3.1). Moreover, k1 = r holds if
and only if the leading term of (3.1) has several eigenvalues.
(c) Let inﬁnity be an essentially irregular singularity of (3.1), so that
ℓ≥1. Then ˆF(z) can be factored as
ˆF(z) = ˆF1(z) · . . . · ˆFℓ(z),
where each ˆFµ(z) is a kµ-summable q-meromorphic formal transfor-
mation, whose singular directions are among those given by (8.6). In
particular, ˆF(z) is of Gevrey order not larger than s = 1/kℓ, and
ˆF1(z) is an HLFFS of (3.1).
(d) In case of ℓ≥2, let ˆG1(z) · . . . · ˆGℓ(z) be another factorization of
ˆF(z) as described in (c). Then there exist convergent meromorphic
transformations T2(z), . . . , Tℓ(z) so that with T1(z) = Tℓ+1(z) = I we
have
ˆFm(z) Tm+1(z) = Tm(z) ˆGm(z),
1 ≤m ≤ℓ.
(8.7)
(e) If the data pairs of ˆF(z) are ordered, then one can ﬁnd a factorization
as above, for which each factor ˆFj(z) is diagonally blocked in the block
structure of level j −1.
Proof: First, observe that if the theorem holds for some FFS, then it is
correct for every other FFS, owing to parts (a) and (c) of Proposition 20.
So it suﬃces to construct a particular FFS. To do so, follow the same
steps, and use the same notation, as in the proof of Proposition 20. If
inﬁnity is an almost regular-singular point, one can read oﬀfrom there
existence of a convergent FFS with empty level set. In the other case, an
FFS exists having the form ˆF(z) = ˆF1(z) ˆF2(z1/q), with an HLFFS ˆF1(z),
while ˆF2(w) is the direct sum of at least two blocks. Each of these blocks
is an FFS of strictly smaller systems, and by induction hypothesis we can
assume that the theorem holds for those. In particular, we may assume
that the data pairs of the blocks are ordered and a factorization as in (e)
exists. Making the change of variable w = z1/q, and then combining the
data pairs of the diagonal blocks in their natural order, gives the data pairs
for the FFS. From the deﬁnition of, resp. the algorithm to construct, an
HLFFS, one can read oﬀthat the leading terms of these data pairs coincide
with what was introduced on p. 56 as the data pairs of the HLFFS ˆF1(z).
This implies that the data pairs of ˆF(z) are ordered, and their highest-
level k1 coincides with the number 1/s deﬁned there. From Theorem 42 we
then conclude that ˆF1(z) is k1-summable, with singular directions that are
