154
9. Stokes’ Phenomenon
each two systems that are analytically resp. meromorphically equiva-
lent all these objects agree, which explains their name. Moreover, the
collection should be complete in the sense that any two systems shar-
ing the same invariants are indeed analytically, resp. meromorphically
equivalent. In other words, the system of analytic resp. meromorphic
invariants characterizes the corresponding equivalence class of sys-
tems (3.1).
• Within each equivalence class of systems with respect to analytic
resp. meromorphic equivalence, ﬁnd a unique representative that, in
some sense or another, is the simplest system in this class, and study
the behavior of its solutions near inﬁnity.
Assuming that the above has been done, one can then completely anal-
yse the behavior of solutions of an arbitrary system by ﬁrst computing
its invariants, thus, determining the equivalence class to which the sys-
tem belongs, and then identifying the corresponding representative for this
equivalence class – then, the solution of the given system behave as the
ones for the corresponding representative, and their behavior is known!
While Birkhoﬀhimself found a complete system of invariants only un-
der some restrictive assumptions, the general case has been treated much
later by Balser, Jurkat, and Lutz [33–36, 41]. Also compare Sibuya [250],
or Lutz and Sch¨afke [177]. Here we shall present a simple result on what
we call highest-level meromorphic invariants. To do so, assume that both
systems (9.14) have an essentially irregular singular point at inﬁnity. Let
( ˆFA(z), YA(z)) and ( ˆFB(z), YB(z)) be HLFFS of the corresponding sys-
tem, with corresponding Stokes’ multipliers Vj,A and Vj,B and formal mon-
odromy matrices LA and LB.
Theorem 48 Let two meromorphic systems (9.14)be given.
(a) Assume the systems to be meromorphically equivalent. Then the data
pairs of the two HLFFS ( ˆFA(z), YA(z)) and ( ˆFB(z), YB(z)) coincide
up to a renumeration.
(b) Assume that the data pairs of ( ˆFA(z), YA(z)) and ( ˆFB(z), YB(z)) co-
incide. Then the systems (9.14) are meromorphically equivalent if and
only if there exists a constant invertible matrix D, diagonally blocked
of type (s1, . . . , sµ), so that
Vj,A = D−1 Vj,B D,
j ∈Z,
e2πi LA = D−1 e2πi LB D,
(9.16)
and in addition YA(z) D−1 Y −1
B (z) has moderate growth, for z →∞,
in arbitrary sectors.
Proof: In case of meromorphic equivalence, there exists a meromorphic
transformation T(z) with (9.15). Hence (T(z) ˆFB(z), YB(z)) is an HLFFS
