184
12. Other Related Questions
parameters are the so-called invariants associated to the singular point at
inﬁnity which is assumed to have Poincar´e rank r ≥1. Both problems have
been believed to be entirely solved for quite some time, but we shall explain
that the answer to the ﬁrst one is, in fact negative, while the second one is
still partially open.
The ﬁnal section then deals with the central connection problem: Think
of a function given by a convergent power series; then what can be said
about its behavior on the boundary of the disc of convergence? If the func-
tion satisﬁes a system of ODE, then its behavior is essentially determined
– except for some unknown constants, called the central connection coef-
ﬁcients. The computation of these coeﬃcients is what this problem is all
about, and we shall show in which sense this can be done.
12.1
Matrix Methods and Multisummability
We recall from Chapter 6 the following notion: Given an inﬁnite matrix
A = (amn), with amn ∈C for m, n ∈N0, we call a formal power series
ˆf(z) =  fn zn ∈E [[z]] A-summable in a direction d ∈R, if there exists a
sectorial region G = G(d, α) of opening α > 0, such that the following two
conditions hold:
1) The series fm(z) = ∞
n=0 amnfn zn converge in discs that all contain
G, for every m ∈N0.
2) The limit f(z) = limm→∞fm(z) exists uniformly on every closed
subsector of G.
The so deﬁned function f, which is holomorphic on G, will be called the
A-sum of ˆf on G. The set of all formal power series that are A-summable in
direction d will be denoted by E {z}A,d, and we write SA,d ˆf for the A-sum
of ˆf.
In this context, it is natural to call a matrix A weakly p-regular (with p
being short for power series), if every convergent series is A-summable in
every direction d to the correct sum. A necessary and suﬃcient condition
for this to hold is given in the exercises. Observe, however, that weak p-
regularity is not the same as power series regularity: Let ˆf(z) converge,
say, for |z| < r. Then for a weakly p-regular matrix we have that to every d
there exists G(d, α) so that the fm converge to f = S ˆf on G(d, α), and the
union of these regions may be a proper subset of the disc of convergence;
see the exercises below that this can occur. The deﬁnition of power series
regular matrices, however, requires this union to be the full disc.
The following problem has been solved by Beck [29, 50] for the case of
E = C, but the proofs carry over to a general Banach space: Characterize
those matrices A for which the following comparison condition (C) holds:
