12.4 Birkhoﬀ’s Reduction Problem
189
• Given the points aj, the paths γj, and invertible matrices Cγj, are
there matrices Aj, so that the corresponding Fuchsian system has the
Cγj as its monodromy factors?
The above problem is usually referred to as the Riemann-Hilbert problem,
or Hilbert’s 21st problem. It was believed to have been positively solved by
Plemelj [221], but Bolibruch [58, 59, 63] in 1989 showed that the answer is
in fact negative by giving an explicit counterexample. For a discussion of
the history of the problem, and a presentation of related results, see the
book of Anosov and Bolibruch [2]. Very recently, new results have been
obtained for the same problem, but lower triangular monodromy matrices,
by Vandamme [273], based on earlier work of Bolibruch [60].
12.4
Birkhoﬀ’s Reduction Problem
Let a system of ordinary diﬀerential equations of the form (3.1) (p. 37) be
given. One classical question concerning such systems is that of the behavior
of its solutions as z →∞. Since analytic transformations essentially leave
this behavior unchanged, Birkhoﬀ[53, 56] in 1913 suggested the following
approach:
• Within an equivalence class of such systems, with respect to analytic
transformations, determine the system(s) that in some sense are the
simplest, and then study their solutions near the point inﬁnity. This
approach is very much analogous to the question of normal forms
of constant matrices with respect to similarity, leading to Jordan
canonical form.
Birkhoﬀconjectured that for every system (3.1) one can always ﬁnd an
analytic transformation x = T(z) y, such that the transformed system z y′ =
B(z) y, B(z) = T −1(z) [A(z) T(z) −z T ′(z)], has a polynomial B(z) as its
coeﬃcient matrix. In his honor, we shall call every system with polynomial
coeﬃcient matrix a system in Birkhoﬀstandard form.
Birkhoﬀhimself showed in [54] that the answer to his question is positive
under the additional assumption that some monodromy matrix, around
the point inﬁnity, of (3.1) is diagonalizable, but seemed to believe that
the same would hold in general. However, in 1959 Gantmacher [105] and
Masani [188] independently presented examples of systems (3.1), in the
smallest nontrivial dimension of ν = 2, for which no such transformation
exists. These counterexamples had triangular coeﬃcient matrices, hence
the following harder problem arose:
• Calling (3.1) reducible if an analytic transformation exists for which
the transformed system is lower triangularly blocked, with square
diagonal blocks of arbitrary dimensions, is it so that every irreducible
system can be analytically transformed to Birkhoﬀstandard form?
