13.2 Diﬀerence Equations
199
formal power series ˆf in z−1, a complex constant λ, a nonnegative
integer k, and a polynomial p in some root of z. In case of a linear
system, the coeﬃcients ˆxp(z) are zero for |p| ≥2, so that then ˆx(z, c)
is a linear function of c1, . . . , cν and corresponds to a FFS.
2. The proof of existence of ˆx(z) follows very much the same steps as
in the linear case: One introduces nonlinear analytic, resp. meromor-
phic, transformations and shows that by means of ﬁnitely many such
transformations one can, step by step, simplify the system in some
clear sense so that in the end one can “solve” it explicitly. For details,
see [22, 24].
3. The formal power series occurring in the coeﬃcients ˆxp(z) all are
multisummable, as is shown in [26].
Despite all the analogies to the linear situation, there are two new diﬃ-
culties for nonlinear systems: For one, it is not clear whether the formal
solution ˆx(z, c) is complete in the sense that every other formal expression
solving (13.1) can be obtained from ˆx(z, c) by a suitable choice of the pa-
rameter vector c. Moreover, suppose that all the formal power series in
ˆx(z, c) are replaced by their multisums, so that we obtain a formal power
series in the parameter vector c, with coeﬃcients which are holomorphic
functions in some sectorial region G at inﬁnity. It is a well-known fact,
called the small denominator phenomenon, that in general this series di-
verges. Suﬃcient conditions for convergence are known; see, e.g., the papers
of Iwano [139, 140] and the literature quoted there. For an analysis of the
nonlinear Stokes phenomenon under a nonresonance condition, compare
Costin [83]. In general, however, it is still open how this series is to be
interpreted.
A related but simpler problem for nonlinear systems is as follows: Sup-
pose that (13.1) has a solution in the form of a power series in z−1, then is
this series multisummable? By now, there are three proofs for the answer
being positive, using quite diﬀerent methods: Braaksma [70] investigated
the nonlinear integral equations of the various levels which correspond to
(13.1) via Borel transform. Ramis and Sibuya [230] used cohomological
methods, while in [21] a more direct approach is taken, very much like the
proof of Picard-Lindel¨of’s existence and uniqueness theorem.
13.2
Diﬀerence Equations
While multisummability is a very appropriate tool for linear and non-
linear ODE, things are more complicated for diﬀerence equations, as we
now shall brieﬂy explain. For a more complete presentation of the theory
of holomorphic diﬀerence equations, see the recent book of van der Put
