200
13. Applications in Other Areas, and Computer Algebra
and Singer [224]. In his Ph.D. thesis, Faber [102] considers extensions to
diﬀerential-diﬀerence equations and more general functional equations that
we do not wish to include here. For simplicity we restrict to linear systems
of diﬀerence equations, although much of what we say is known to extend
to the nonlinear situation: Let us consider a system of diﬀerence equations
of the form
x(z + 1) = A(z) x(z),
where the coeﬃcient matrix is exactly as in (3.1), i.e., is holomorphic for
|z| > ρ and has at worst a pole at inﬁnity. The ﬁrst, trivial although
important, observation is that the order of the pole of A(z) does not play
the same crucial role as for systems of ODE: If we set x(z) = Γ(z) ˜x(z), then
the functional equation of the Gamma function implies that ˜x(z) satisﬁes
a diﬀerence equation exactly like before, but with z−1A(z) as its coeﬃcient
matrix. Thus we learn by repeated application of this argument that we
might restrict ourselves to systems where A(z) is holomorphic at inﬁnity,
and A(∞) ̸= 0, but for what we shall have to say, this will be not essential.
However, to avoid degeneracies, we shall assume that det A(z) ̸≡0, so
that x(z + 1) = A(z) x(z) can be solved for x(z), obtaining an equivalent
diﬀerence equation in the “backward direction.”
Under the assumptions made above, the formal theory of such a diﬀerence
equation is well established [80, 81, 92, 133, 134, 223, 269]: Every such
system has a formal fundamental solution of the form
ˆX(z) = ˆF(z) zΛz eQ(z) zL,
with:
• a formal q-meromorphic transformation ˆF(z), for some q ∈N,
• a diagonal matrix Λ of rational numbers with denominators equal to
the same number q,
• a diagonal matrix Q(z) of polynomials in z1/q without constant term
and of degree strictly less than q, and
• a constant matrix L in Jordan canonical form, commuting with Q(z)
and Λ.
Hence, the main diﬀerence between formal solutions of diﬀerence and dif-
ferential equations is the occurrence of the term zΛz. Indeed, if Λ vanishes
or is a multiple of the identity matrix, then Braaksma and Faber [71] have
shown that ˆF(z) is (k1, . . . , kp)-summable in all but countably many direc-
tions, with levels 1 = k1 > . . . > kp > 0 that are determined by Q(z)
in exactly the same fashion as for ODE. If Λ contains several distinct en-
tries on the diagonal, however, things get considerably more complicated
because of the occurrence of a new level, commonly denoted as level 1+.
A simple but very instructive example showing this phenomenon may be
