13.3 Singular Perturbations
201
found in Faber’s thesis [102]. Roughly speaking, this example shows that in
presence of level 1+ one can no longer restrict to using Laplace transform
integrating along straight lines, but has to allow other paths of integration.
For a general presentation, see Chapter 3 of the said thesis, containing joint
work of Braaksma, Faber, and Immink.
13.3
Singular Perturbations
Let us consider a system of ODE of the form
εσ x′ = g(z, x, ε),
where g(z, x, ε) is as in Section 13.1, but additionally depends on a parame-
ter ε, and σ is a natural number. Analysis of the dependence of solutions on
ε is referred to as a singular perturbation problem. Under suitable assump-
tions on the right-hand side, such a system will have a formal solution
ˆx(z, ε) = ∞
n=0 xn(z) εn, with coeﬃcients xn(z) given by diﬀerential re-
cursion relations. In general, the series is divergent, and classically one has
tried to show existence of solutions of the above system that are asymptotic
to ˆx(z, ε) when ε →0 in some sectorial region. Very recently, one has begun
to investigate Gevrey properties of ˆx, or discuss its (multi-)summability.
Of the recent articles containing results in this direction, we mention Wal-
let [278, 279], Canalis-Durant [76], and Canalis-Durant, Ramis, Sch¨afke,
and Sibuya [77].
Since here we meet power series whose coeﬃcients are functions of an-
other variable, the situation is very much analogous to that of formal so-
lutions of partial diﬀerential equations, which we are investigating in the
following section. Here, we shall brieﬂy look at a very simple example,
already discussed by Ecalle:
The inhomogeneous equation ε x′ = x −f(z) has the formal solution
ˆx(z, ε) = ∞
0 εn f (n)(z), for arbitrary f(z) which we assume holomorphic
near the origin, say, for |z| < ρ. According to Cauchy’s formula, the coeﬃ-
cients f (n)(z) grow roughly like n!, so it is natural to study 1-summability
of this series. The formal Borel transformation of order k = 1 of this series
equals the power series expansion of f(z + ε) about the point z. Conse-
quently, holomorphic continuation of ˆB1ˆx is equivalent to that of f. Hence,
the series ˆx is 1-summable in a direction d if and only if the function f
admits holomorphic continuation into a sector S(d, δ), for some δ > 0, and
is of exponential growth at most 1 there. More generally, one can prove a
result on the multisummability of ˆx that is completely analogous to Theo-
rem 63 (below) for the heat equation. In any case, multisummability of ˆx
is always linked to explicit conditions on the function f(z). This indicates
that for power series of several variables, the notion of multisummability
that has been developed in this book is not general enough. This is due
