204
13. Applications in Other Areas, and Computer Algebra
=
C
 ∞
0
xsn exp[−x + c|z| xs] dx.
The integral can be bounded by Γ(1+sn) times some constant to the power
n, completing the proof.
2
It is worthwhile observing that for t ̸= 0 the series u(t, z) in fact converges
for every z, and hence represents an entire function in z that may be seen
to be of exponential size at most 2. This coincides with the classical result
on the convergence of ˆu(t, z) (see below). The formal series ˆψj(z) resp.
ˆψ±(z) are explicitly related to ϕ(z), and using acceleration and Laplace
operators, one can explicitly reformulate (a), (b) in terms of transforms
of the function ϕ(z). However, it is in general diﬃcult to check (a) or (b)
directly through investigation of ϕ(z), except for the special case of ν = 1,
k = k1 = 1. In this situation, the above theorem essentially coincides with
the result obtained by Lutz, Miyake, and Sch¨afke [176]: Conditions (a) or
(b) then are equivalent to ϕ(z) admitting holomorphic continuation into
small sectors bisected by rays arg z = d and arg z = d + π, and being of
exponential size not more than 2 there.
As follows from the proof of the above theorem, in case of kν > 1 we have
summability of ˆu(t, z) for every z. For kν = 1, however, summability takes
place only in a disc whose radius in general is smaller than the radius of
convergence of ˆϕ(z). Since k-summability in all directions is equivalent to
convergence, we obtain as a corollary of the above theorem that convergence
of ˆu(t, z) is equivalent to the initial condition being an entire function of
exponential size at most two. This, however, is a well-known classical result.
13.5
Computer Algebra Methods
While in principle the computation of a formal fundamental solution of a
system (3.1) presents no problem, it can in practice become very tiresome,
even for relatively small dimensions. Thus it may be good to know that
there are computer algebra packages available that perform these com-
putations. Others are being developed right now, aiming at even better
performance and/or giving more detailed information on the structure of
the formal fundamental solution. One should note, however, that one cer-
tainly cannot hope for expressing all the terms in such a FFS in closed
form. However, it is possible to compute explicitly the exponential poly-
nomials and the formal monodromy matrix, and even set up the recursion
equations from which one then may obtain any ﬁnite number of power
series coeﬃcients. In the same sense, formal fundamental solutions of dif-
ference equations may be obtained with help of a computer, but we shall
not discuss this here.
As we have seen previously, scalar equations of arbitrary order can be
rewritten as systems. Vice versa, systems can, with help of a cyclic vector,
