208
14. Some Historical Remarks
1. Among all solutions of the linear system of ODE that are asymptotic
to a given formal solution in some sector, can we characterize one
uniquely by requiring certain additional properties?
2. If so, can we ﬁnd a representation for this unique solution, in terms of
the formal one, using an integral operator, or applying a summability
method to the formal power series?
Parallel to these developments in the theory of ODE, scientists also founded
a general theory of asymptotic expansions. Here, the analogue to the Main
Asymptotic Existence Theorem is usually called Ritt’s theorem, and is much
easier to prove: Given any formal power series and any sector of arbitrary,
but ﬁnite, opening, there exists a function that is holomorphic in this sec-
tor and has the formal power series as its asymptotic expansion. This
function is never uniquely determined – not even when the power series
converges, because it may not converge toward this function! To overcome
this nonuniqueness, Watson [282, 283] and Nevanlinna [201] introduced a
special kind of asymptotic expansions, now commonly called of Gevrey or-
der s > 0. These have the property that the analogue to Ritt’s theorem
holds for sectors of opening up to sπ, in which cases the function again
is not uniquely determined. If the opening is larger than sπ, however, a
function that has a given formal power series as expansion of Gevrey or-
der s > 0 may not exist, but if it does, then it is uniquely determined. In
case of existence, the function can be represented as Laplace transform of
another function that is holomorphic at the origin, and whose power series
expansion is explicitly given in terms of the formal power series.
This achievement in the general theory of asymptotic expansions obvi-
ously escaped the attention of specialists for diﬀerential equations in the
complex domain for quite some time: In a series of papers, Horn [125–128]
showed the following result for linear systems of ODE: Let the leading
term of the coeﬃcient matrix, at a singularity of second kind, have all
distinct eigenvalues. Then for sectors with suﬃciently large opening one
has uniqueness in the Main Asymptotic Existence Theorem, and the so-
lution can be represented as a Laplace integral, or equivalently, in terms
of (inverse) factorial series. However, he did not relate his observations to
the general results of Watson and Nevanlinna. Later, Trjitzinsky [266] and
Turrittin [268] treated somewhat more general situations, and they also
pointed out the limitation of this approach to special cases.
In 1978/80, Ramis [225, 226] introduced his notion of k-summability of
formal power series, which may best be interpreted as a formalization of the
ideas of Watson and Nevanlinna. In this terminology, we may interpret the
results of Horn, Trjitzinsky, and Turrittin as saying that, under additional
assumptions, formal solutions of linear meromorphic systems of ODE are
k-summable, for a suitable value of k > 0. In the general case, Ramis proved
that every formal fundamental solution of every such system can be factored
into a ﬁnite product of matrix power series (times some explicit functions),
