14. Some Historical Remarks
209
so that each factor is k-summable, but with the number k depending upon
the factor. In my treatment of ﬁrst-level formal solutions [8–10, 12, 40]
I had, more or less by accident, independently obtained the same result.
However, this factorization of formal solutions is not truly eﬀective, and
the factors are not uniquely determined, so that this result does not really
allow us to compute the resulting matrix function from the formal series.
More recently, Ecalle [94–96] presented a way to achieve this computa-
tion, introducing his deﬁnition of multisummability. In a sense, his method
diﬀers from Ramis’s deﬁnition of k-summability by cleverly enlarging the
class of functions to which the Laplace operator, in some generalized form,
can be applied. Another way of interpreting his method is by realizing that
Ramis’s k-summability in essence is a special case of what is called a Mo-
ment Summability Method. The rapidly growing coeﬃcients of the formal
power series are divided by a moment sequence to produce a convergent
power series; then, the resulting holomorphic function is inserted into an
integral operator, and the function so obtained is regarded as the sum of
the original power series. Multisummability may be seen as the concept of
iterating certain Moment Summability Methods. Given a power series with
a radius of convergence equal to zero, we divide by a moment sequence
as in the case of k-summability. The resulting series, however, will in gen-
eral not be convergent, but instead is summable by some other Moment
Method, which then produces a function to which the integral operator can
be applied.
The idea of iteration of summability methods was already familiar to
Hardy [112] and Good [110], but it was Ecalle who realized its potential
with respect to formal solutions of ODE. He stated without proofs a large
number of results concerning properties and applications of multisumma-
bility, e.g., to formal solutions of nonlinear systems of ODE. Based upon
the described factorization of formal solutions in the linear case, it was
more or less evident that multisummability applied to all formal solutions
of linear systems. However, for nonlinear ones, the ﬁrst complete proof for
this fact was given by Braaksma [70]. Independent proofs, using diﬀerent
techniques, are due to Ramis and Sibuya [230] and myself [21].
Before Ecalle founded the theory of multisummability, researchers at-
tacked the ﬁrst one of the two questions raised above following diﬀerent
approaches: The main reason for wanting to have a unique solution that,
say, near the point inﬁnity, is asymptotic to the formal fundamental so-
lution in some (small) sector lies in the fact that one wanted to have a
clear description of what is called Stokes’ phenomenon. This term refers
to the fact that in diﬀerent sectors one ﬁnds diﬀerent solutions with the
same asymptotic behavior as the variable tends to inﬁnity. One way out
of the dilemma was to just select a solution for each sector, study their
interrelations, i.e., their dependence upon the sector, and then investigate
how these relations change when one picks a diﬀerent set of solutions. This
line of approach leads to a description of Stokes’ phenomenon in terms
