A.1 Matrix Equations
213
with δµ either zero or one, and in particular δj = 0. According to our
assumption A −λµI always is invertible; hence these equations allow us to
compute the columns xµ in reverse order.
2
The situation where A and B have eigenvalues in common is slightly
more complicated: There may be no solution, and if there is one, it will not
be unique. Here, we only need the following special case:
Lemma 25 Let J1 ∈C k×k and J2 ∈C j×j be two Jordan blocks having
the same eigenvalue, and assume k ≥j (resp. k ≤j). Then for every
C ∈C k×j there exists a unique matrix B ∈C k×j having nonzero entries
in the ﬁrst row (resp. last column) only, such that the matrix equation
J1 X −X J2 = C −B
(A.2)
has a solution X ∈C k×j, which is unique within the set of matrices X
having zero entries in the last row (resp. ﬁrst column).
Proof:
First, observe that we may restrict ourselves to the case where
both matrices Jk are nilpotent. In the ﬁrst case of k ≥j, denoting the
entries in the ﬁrst row of B by β1, . . . , βj, and the columns of X resp. C
by xm resp. cm, equation (A.2) is equivalent to
J1 xj = cj −βj e1,
J1 xm = xm+1 + cm −βm e1,
1 ≤m ≤j −1,
with e1 being the ﬁrst unit vector. Computing J1 xj, one ﬁnds that the
ﬁrst equation is solvable if and only if βj equals the ﬁrst entry in cj. If so,
the entries in xj can be uniquely computed except for the last one which
remains undetermined. Inserting into the next equation with m = j −1,
assuming j ≥2, we again conclude that this equation is solvable if and
only if βj−1 is chosen such that the ﬁrst entry in the right hand side vector
equals zero. Also note that k ≥j implies that the undetermined entry in
xj does not interfere with the determination of βj−1. Solving for xj−1 then
gives a vector whose components are uniquely determined except for the
last two, since the undetermined entry in xj enters into the second last
component of xj−1. Repeating these arguments for the remaining columns
then completes the proof of the ﬁrst case. In the second case of k ≤j one
proceeds analogously, working with rows instead of columns.
2
Note that both lemmas remain correct for j = 1 and/or k = 1; in par-
ticular the second one holds trivially for j = k = 1 with B = C, X = 0.
Exercises:
1. Solve (A.1) for
A =
 0
1
1
0

,
B =

0
1
−1
0

,
C =
 1
0
0
0

.
