220
Appendix B. Functions with Values in Banach Spaces
For an arbitrary function f, one can deﬁne the integral over f along a
path, i.e., a rectiﬁable curve, γ in G to be the “limit” of the Riemann sums,
in case it exists. As for the scalar case, one can prove its existence for every
continuous f. Since holomorphy implies continuity, we can form integrals
of holomorphic functions over closed paths in G and raise the question
whether they always vanish. This we shall do in the next section.
B.1
Cauchy’s Theorem and its Consequences
In what follows we will assume Cauchy’s theorem for holomorphic functions
with values in C
as known, and from it derive the same for E -valued
functions. Moreover, we shall derive other results for E -valued functions as
well, which the reader may or may not know for C-valued ones.
The following theorem is the key to all the results we shall obtain later:
Theorem 65 (Cauchy’s Integral Theorem and Formula)
Assume that G is simply connected and f : G →E is continuous. Then
the following statements are equivalent:
(a) The function f is weakly holomorphic in G.
(b) The function f is holomorphic in G.
(c) The integral of f over any closed path in G vanishes.
(d) For every positively oriented Jordan path γ and every z in the interior
region of γ we have
f(z) =
1
2πi

γ
f(w)
w −z dw.
(B.1)
Proof: Suppose (a) holds. For every path γ in G and every φ ∈E ∗, one can
conclude from the deﬁnition of the integral via Riemann sums and linearity
of φ that

γ
φ(f(z)) dz = φ(x),
x =

γ
f(z) dz.
(B.2)
The integral on the left vanishes for a closed path γ. Hence we conclude
that x =

γ f(z) dz satisﬁes φ(x) = 0 for every φ ∈E ∗. This implies
x = 0, according to Hahn-Banach’s theorem. Thus we see that (c) follows.
Conversely, it follows from (B.2) that (c) implies (a). Denoting the right-
hand side of (B.1) by g(z), we conclude similarly that weak holomorphy
implies φ(f(z) −g(z)) = 0 for every z in the interior region and every
φ ∈E ∗, implying (B.1). This formula then can be seen to imply holomorphy
of f, because diﬀerentiation under the integral sign is justiﬁed. Thus, the
