226
Appendix B. Functions with Values in Banach Spaces
discs, which implies f˜s(z1) = fs(z1) for these values ˜s, but this clearly
implies that fs(z1) has to be constant.
2
While we have seen that functions can be holomorphically continued by
successive re-expansion (provided that they are analytic at the points of
some path), this method has little practical value. We shall, however, see in
the following two subsections that other, more eﬀective ways of holomorphic
continuation are available in special cases. Moreover, both examples show
that continuation along paths that are not homotopic may, or may not,
produce the same value for the function at the common endpoint of the
paths.
• The Natural Logarithm
The (natural) logarithm of a nonzero complex number z is best deﬁned by
the integral
log z =
 z
1
dw
w = log |z| + i arg z.
(B.7)
According to the Monodromy Theorem, this deﬁnition is unambiguous in
any simply connected region containing 1 but not the origin, since then
it is irrelevant along which path integration is performed. However, since
$
w−1dw = 2πi when integrating along positively oriented circles about the
origin, we see that it is not possible to give an unambiguous deﬁnition of
log z in the full punctured complex plane (i.e., the complex plane with the
origin deleted). Instead, one can think of the logarithm as deﬁned in the
cut plane, i.e., the complex plane with the negative real numbers including
zero deleted, interpreting arg z to be in the open interval (−π, π), or what
is much better for our purposes, imagine log z as deﬁned on what is called
the Riemann surface of the logarithm: Think of a “spiraling staircase” with
inﬁnitely many levels in both directions, “centered” at the origin. Points on
this staircase are uniquely characterized by their distance r > 0 from the
origin and the angle ϕ, measured against some arbitrarily chosen direction.
To every point on the staircase, or simply every pair (r, ϕ), there corre-
sponds the complex number z = r exp[2πi], called the projection. Instead
of a point, we can also consider the projection of subsets of the Riemann
surface. Consider a curve in the punctured complex plane, i.e., the plane
with the origin deleted, parameterized by z(t), 0 ≤t ≤1. It can be “lifted”
to the Riemann surface by choosing a value for arg z(0) and requiring that
arg z(t) change continuously with respect to t. This implies that double
points on the curve in the plane may correspond to distinct points on the
surface. We shall use the same symbol z both for points in the punctured
plane and on the Riemann surface, but we emphasize that on the Riemann
surface the argument of a point is uniquely deﬁned. For example, the points
z and z exp[2πi], when considered on the Riemann surface, will not be the
same; instead, the second one sits directly above the ﬁrst one when using
