B.3 Holomorphic Continuation
227
the visualization as a staircase. Taking this into account, the function log z
can then be unambiguously deﬁned by (B.7). It will be very convenient
to view other functions √z, or zα, having branch points at the origin, as
being deﬁned on this Riemann surface, in order to avoid discussing which
one of their, in general inﬁnitely many, branches one should take in a par-
ticular situation. For arbitrary functions f, deﬁned on some domain G
considered on the Riemann surface, we shall say that f is single-valued if
f(z) = f(z exp[2πi]) whenever both sides are deﬁned (which may very well
never happen). This is nothing else but saying that we may consider the
function, instead of the domain G on the Riemann surface, as deﬁned on
the corresponding projection in the plane. For example, the function zα is
single-valued whenever α ∈Z.
• The Gamma Function
The following C-valued function plays a prominent role in this book as well
as in many other branches of mathematics:
The Gamma Function
For z in the right half-plane, the function
Γ(z) =
 ∞
0
tz−1 e−t dt
(B.8)
(integrating along the positive real axis and deﬁning the, in gen-
eral multi-valued, function tz−1 according to the speciﬁcation
of arg t = 0) is named the Gamma function.
It is easily seen that the integral in (B.8) converges absolutely and locally
uniformly for z in the right half-plane; hence the function is holomorphic
there, because the integrand is a holomorphic function of z. If, instead of
starting from zero, we integrate from one to inﬁnity, the corresponding
function is entire, i.e., analytic in C. In the remaining integral, we expand
e−t into its power series and integrate termwise to obtain
Γ(z) =
∞

n=0
(−1)n
n! (z + n)
+
 ∞
1
tz−1 e−t dt.
Clearly, the series in this representation formula remains convergent for z
in the closed left half-plane except for the points 0, −1, . . . where one of
the terms becomes inﬁnite; thus, this formula provides the holomorphic
continuation of Γ(z) into the complex plane except for ﬁrst-order poles at
the nonpositive integers. In particular, holomorphic continuation along ar-
bitrary paths avoiding these points is always possible and the value of the
function at the endpoint is independent of the path, because the function
