arXiv:1205.3971v1  [math.CV]  17 May 2012
Continuous right inverses for the asymptotic Borel map in
ultraholomorphic classes via a Laplace-type transform
Alberto Lastra, St´ephane Malek and Javier Sanz
November 8, 2018
Abstract
A new construction of linear continuous right inverses for the asymptotic Borel map is provided in the
framework of general Carleman ultraholomorphic classes in narrow sectors. Such operators were already
obtained by V. Thilliez by means of Whitney extension results for non quasianalytic ultradiﬀerentiable
classes, due to J. Chaumat and A. M. Chollet, but our approach is completely diﬀerent, resting on
the introduction of a suitable truncated Laplace-type transform. This technique is better suited for a
generalization of these results to the several variables setting. Moreover, it closely resembles the classical
procedure in the case of Gevrey classes, so indicating the way for the introduction of a concept of
summability which generalizes k−summability theory as developed by J. P. Ramis.
Key words: Laplace transform, formal power series, asymptotic expansions, ultraholomorphic classes,
Borel map, extension operators.
2010 MSC: 30D60, 30E05, 40C10, 41A60, 41A63.
1
Introduction
For sectors S of suitably small opening and vertex at 0, the Borel-Ritt-Gevrey theorem proved
by J. P. Ramis (see [24, 25, 18], [1, Thm. 2.2.1]) guarantees the existence of holomorphic functions
on S having an arbitrarily prescribed Gevrey asymptotic expansion of order α at 0. This amounts
to the surjectivity of the asymptotic Borel map, sending a function to its series of asymptotic
expansion, when considered between the corresponding spaces of Gevrey functions, respectively
Gevrey series. The proof is constructive, and basically consists in applying a truncated Laplace
transform to the formal Borel transform of the initially given Gevrey series.
For functions f holomorphic on a polysector S ⊂Cn with vertex at 0, H. Majima [14, 15]
put forward the concept of strong asymptotic developability, which has been shown [9, 7] to
amount to the boundedness of the derivatives of f on bounded proper subpolysectors of S, just
as in the one-variable situation. The asymptotic behaviour of f is determined by the family
TA(f) (see Section 5), consisting of functions obtained as limits of the derivatives of f when
some of its variables tend to 0 (in the same way as the coeﬃcients of the series of asymptotic
expansion in the one-variable case).
In 1989 Y. Haraoka [8] considered the space of holomorphic functions f in a polysector S that
admit Gevrey strong asymptotic expansion of order α = (α1, . . . , αn) ∈[1, ∞)n (one order per
variable), and got two partial Borel-Ritt-Gevrey type results in this context again by applying
a (multidimensional) truncated Laplace transform.
Subsequently, in the one-variable setting V. Thilliez [27, Theorem 1.3] obtained a linear con-
tinuous version of this result by constructing extension operators (linear continuous right inverses
1
