arXiv:1607.08027v2  [math.CA]  15 Feb 2018
Log-convex sequences and nonzero proximate orders
Javier Jim´enez-Garrido, Javier Sanz and Gerhard Schindl
October 11, 2018
Abstract
Summability methods for ultraholomorphic classes in sectors, deﬁned in terms of a
strongly regular sequence M = (Mp)p∈N0, have been put forward by A. Lastra, S. Malek
and the second author [10], and their validity depends on the possibility of associating to
M a nonzero proximate order. We provide several characterizations of this and other re-
lated properties, in which the concept of regular variation for functions and sequences plays
a prominent role. In particular, we show how to construct well-behaved strongly regular
sequences from nonzero proximate orders.
Keywords: Log-convex sequences; regular variation; proximate orders; Carleman ultraholo-
morphic classes.
AMS 2010 Classiﬁcation: 26A12, 40A05, 26A51, 30D60.
1
Introduction
A general, common treatment of summability in Carleman ultraholomorphic classes in sec-
tors, which extends the powerful theory of k−summability dealing with Gevrey formal power
series, has been put forward by A. Lastra, S. Malek and the second author [10]. The tech-
nique consisted in the construction of pairs of kernel functions with suitable asymptotic and
growth properties, in terms of which to deﬁne formal and analytic Laplace- and Borel-like
transforms which allow one to explicitly recover the sum of a summable formal power series
in a direction. The main inspiration came from the theory of moment summability methods
developed by W. Balser in [1, Section 5.5], and required the notion of proximate order,
appearing in the study of growth properties of holomorphic functions in sectors.
The Carleman ultraholomorphic classes
˜
AM(G) we deal with are those consisting of
holomorphic functions f admitting an asymptotic expansion ˆf = P
p≥0 apzp, in a sectorial
region G with vertex at 0, with remainders suitably bounded in terms of a sequence M =
(Mp)p∈N0 of positive real numbers: for every bounded and proper subsector T of G, there
exist CT , AT > 0 such that for every p ∈N0 and z ∈T , one has
f(z) −
p−1
X
k=0
akzk ≤CT Ap
T Mp|z|p.
We will mostly consider logarithmically convex sequences M with quotients mp :=
Mp+1/Mp tending to inﬁnity, and frequently our attention will focus on strongly regular
sequences as deﬁned by V. Thilliez [22], of which the best known example is that of Gevrey
classes, appearing when the sequence is chosen to be (p!α)p∈N0, α > 0.
The second author introduced in [19] the constant
ω(M) = lim inf
p→∞
log(mp)
log(p)
∈(0, ∞),
1
