arXiv:2205.07605v2  [math.CV]  31 Oct 2022
Optimal ﬂat functions in Carleman-Roumieu ultraholomorphic
classes in sectors
Javier Jiménez-Garrido
Ignacio Miguel-Cantero
Javier Sanz
Gerhard Schindl
November 2, 2022
Abstract
We construct optimal ﬂat functions in Carleman-Roumieu ultraholomorphic classes as-
sociated to general strongly nonquasianalytic weight sequences, and deﬁned on sectors of
suitably restricted opening. A general procedure is presented in order to obtain linear con-
tinuous extension operators, right inverses of the Borel map, for the case of regular weight
sequences in the sense of Dyn’kin. Finally, we discuss some examples (including the well-
known q-Gevrey case) where such optimal ﬂat functions can be obtained in a more explicit
way.
Key words: Carleman-Roumieu ultraholomorphic classes, asymptotic expansions, linear ex-
tension operators.
2020 MSC: Primary 47A57; secondary 44A10, 46E10.
1
Introduction
The asymptotic Borel map sends a function, admitting an asymptotic expansion in a sectorial
region, into the formal power series providing such expansion. In many instances it is important
to decide about the injectivity and surjectivity of this map when considered between so-called
Carleman-Roumieu ultraholomorphic classes and the corresponding class of formal series, deﬁned
by restricting the growth of some of the characteristic data of their elements (the derivatives of
the functions, the remainders in the expansion, or the coeﬃcients of the series) in terms of
a given weight sequence M = (Mp)p∈N0 of positive real numbers (see Subsection 2.3 for the
deﬁnition of such classes). While the injectivity has been fully characterized for sectorial re-
gions and general weight sequences [17, 27, 12], the surjectivity problem is still under study.
The classical Borel-Ritt-Gevrey theorem of B. Malgrange and J.-P. Ramis [26], solving the case
of Gevrey asymptotics (for which M = (p!α)p∈N0, α > 0), was partially extended to diﬀerent
more general situations by J. Schmets and M. Valdivia [29], V. Thilliez [30, 31] and the au-
thors [28, 12, 13]. Summing up, it is known now that the strong nonquasianalyticity condition
(snq) for M, equivalent to the fact that the index γ(M) introduced by V. Thilliez is positive (see
Subsection 2.2), is indeed necessary for surjectivity. Moreover, for an unbounded sector Sγ of
opening πγ (γ > 0) in the Riemann surface of the logarithm and for regular weight sequences in
the sense of E. M. Dyn’kin [6] (see Subsection 2.1 for the deﬁnitions), the Borel map is surjective
whenever γ < γ(M), while it is not for γ > γ(M) (the situation for γ = γ(M) is still unclear
in general). It is important to note that the current proof of surjectivity in this situation is
not constructive, but rests on the characterization, by abstract functional-analytic techniques,
of the surjectivity of the Stieltjes moment mapping in Gelfand-Shilov spaces deﬁned by regular
1
