2
sequences due to A. Debrouwere [5]. This information is transferred into the asymptotic frame-
work in a halfplane by means of the Fourier transform, and in [13] Laplace and Borel transforms
of arbitrary order allow to conclude for general sectors. However, in the particular case of classes
given by strongly regular sequences in the sense of V. Thilliez, the proof of surjectivity of the
Borel map [31] rests on the construction of optimal ﬂat functions in suitable sectors and a dou-
ble application of Whitney extension results. Subsequently, A. Lastra, S. Malek and the third
author [16] reproved surjectivity in a more explicit way by means of formal Borel- and truncated
Laplace-like transforms, deﬁned from suitable kernel functions obtained from those optimal ﬂat
functions.
The ﬁrst aim of this paper is to construct such optimal ﬂat functions for Carleman-Roumieu
ultraholomorphic classes deﬁned by general weight sequences (not just strongly regular ones)
and in sectors Sγ with γ < γ(M). The key idea comes from a recent preprint by D. N. Nenning,
A. Rainer and the fourth author [20], where they have studied the mixed Borel problem in
Beurling ultradiﬀerentiable classes. They consider a mixed condition inspired by a related one
(see (23) in this paper) appearing in a work of M. Langenbruch [15].
It turns out that the
condition of Langenbruch is, under natural hypotheses, equivalent to the fact that γ(M) > 1,
and it is crucial in order to construct optimal ﬂat functions in a halfplane by means of the
classical harmonic extension of the associated function ωM. A ramiﬁcation process provides then
optimal ﬂat functions in the general situation. These results completely close the problem of
the explicit construction of optimal ﬂat functions in sectors of appropriate opening for classes
deﬁned in terms of a general weight sequence. Moreover, the constructive techniques developed
in this paper could be used in other contexts where weighted structures appear.
Secondly, for ultraholomorphic classes deﬁned by regular sequences we establish the con-
nection with the surjectivity of the Borel map by providing a constructive technique for the
corresponding extension results, in the same vein as in [16]. For sake of completeness, in the
case of strongly regular sequences we also give an alternative approach, based on the work of
J. Bruna [4], to this connection.
In order to highlight the power of the technique in concrete situations, we will also present a
family of (non strongly) regular sequences for which such optimal ﬂat functions can be provided
in any sector of the Riemann surface of the logarithm (what agrees with the fact that the index
γ(M) is in this case equal to ∞), resting on precise estimates for the associated function ωM
instead of appealing to its harmonic extension. We end by showing how optimal ﬂat functions
and extension results can be obtained for convolved sequences, in case the factor sequences admit
such constructions separately. Some examples are commented on in regard with this technique.
The paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 consists of all the preliminary information
concerning weight sequences and some indices or auxiliary functions associated with them, and
the main facts about ultraholomorphic classes and the (asymptotic) Borel map deﬁned for them.
In Section 3 we deﬁne optimal ﬂat functions and carefully detail their construction for general
weight sequences. Next, we show that their existence entails the surjectivity of the Borel map
in ultraholomorphic classes deﬁned by regular sequences. In the particular case of sequences
of moderate growth, diﬀerent statements are presented relating the property of strong non-
quasianalyticity to the existence of such ﬂat functions. In Section 4 we give a family of sequences
(among which the classical q-Gevrey sequences are found) for which optimal ﬂat functions can
be constructed in a more explicit way. We need to work ﬁrst in C \ (−∞, 0], and then apply
a ramiﬁcation in order to reason for arbitrary sectors in the Riemann surface of the logarithm.
Finally, the last section is devoted to the work with convolved sequences.
