arXiv:0809.2057v1  [math.CA]  11 Sep 2008
SMOOTH SOLUTIONS OF QUASIANALYTIC OR
ULTRAHOLOMORPHIC EQUATIONS
VINCENT THILLIEZ
Abstract. In the ﬁrst part of this work, we consider a polynomial ϕ(x, y) =
yd+a1(x)yd−1 +· · ·+ad(x) whose coeﬃcients aj belong to a Denjoy-Carleman
quasianalytic local ring E1(M). Assuming that E1(M) is stable under deriva-
tion, we show that if h is a germ of C∞function such that ϕ(x, h(x)) = 0,
then h belongs to E1(M). This extends a well-known fact about real-analytic
functions. We also show that the result fails in general for non-quasianalytic
ultradiﬀerentiable local rings. In the second part of the paper, we study a sim-
ilar problem in the framework of ultraholomorphic functions on sectors of the
Riemann surface of the logarithm. We obtain a result that includes suitable
non-quasianalytic situations.
Introduction
The starting point of the present paper is the following classical result:
Theorem 1 ([6, 11]). Let ϕ be a non-zero germ of real-analytic function at the
origin in Rn+1.
If h is germ of C∞function at the origin in Rn such that
ϕ(x, h(x)) = 0, then h is real-analytic.
It is natural to ask whether a similar result holds in quasianalytic situations,
that is, when ϕ belongs to a quasianalytic local ring En+1(M) (see the deﬁnition
in Section 1.3). However, the problem seems diﬃcult to address in full generality.
In Section 1 of the present paper, we consider the particular case of quasianalytic
polynomials in two variables, that is,
ϕ(x, y) = yd + a1(x)yd−1 + · · · + ad(x)
where the coeﬃcients aj are function germs of one variable belonging to a given
quasianalytic local ring E1(M). Despite its simplicity, this particular case is impor-
tant, since in the analytic setting, Theorem 1 can be reduced to the same situation
via the preparation theorem and a potential-theoretic argument, so that the ana-
lyticity of smooth roots can then be obtained by elementary power series techniques
(see e.g. Chapter V of [1]). In the quasianalytic setting, power series expansions of
germs are merely formal and cannot be used in the same way. We therefore combine
an application of the Artin-type approximation property of Rotthaus [10] together
with a version of Puiseux’s theorem for quasianalytic polynomials. This allows us,
under a mild extra assumption, namely the stability of E1(M) under derivation, to
show that if h is a germ of C∞function such that ϕ(x, h(x)) = 0, then h belongs to
E1(M), as expected: this is the statement of Theorem 2. We then give an example
showing that the result is generally false when E1(M) is non-quasianalytic.
This example suggests another question, namely whether it is possible to obtain
a result similar to Theorem 2 in a somewhat diﬀerent non-quasianalytic situa-
tion, namely for ultraholomorphic classes.
Thus, in Section 2, we consider the
space A∞(S) of functions holomorphic in a given bounded angular sector S of the
Riemann surface of the logarithm and uniformly bounded in S at any order of
2000 Mathematics Subject Classiﬁcation. 26E10, 30D60, 32B10.
1
