arXiv:2307.14762v1  [math.CV]  27 Jul 2023
Stability properties of ultraholomorphic classes of
Roumieu-type deﬁned by weight matrices
Javier Jim´enez-Garrido
Ignacio Miguel-Cantero
Javier Sanz
Gerhard Schindl
July 28, 2023
Abstract
We characterize several stability properties, such as inverse or composition closed-
ness, for ultraholomorphic function classes of Roumieu type deﬁned in terms of a
weight matrix. In this way we transfer and extend known results from J. Siddiqi
and M. Ider, from the weight sequence setting and in sectors not wider than a half-
plane, to the weight matrix framework and for sectors in the Riemann surface of the
logarithm with arbitrary opening. The key argument rests on the construction, un-
der suitable hypotheses, of characteristic functions in these classes for unrestricted
sectors. As a by-product, we obtain new stability results when the growth control
in these classes is expressed in terms of a weight sequence, or of a weight function
in the sense of Braun-Meise-Taylor.
Key words: Ultraholomorphic classes; weight matrices and weight functions; indices
of regular variation; stability properties; characteristic functions.
2020 MSC: Primary 26A12, 26A48; secondary 46A13, 46E10.
1
Introduction
When dealing with function spaces (usually called classes) it is very interesting to de-
cide whether the usual operations (pointwise product, composition, algebraic inversion,
diﬀerentiation, integration, etc.) on the functions of the space provide new functions
inside it. These stability properties play a crucial role in the setting and the solution of,
for example, algebraic, diﬀerential or integro-diﬀerential equations in the class.
In the literature one can frequently ﬁnd the so-called ultradiﬀerentiable classes, both
in the Carleman and the Braun-Meise-Taylor sense, whose elements are smooth func-
tions deﬁned on open subsets of Rn (or possibly germs at a point) such that the rate
of growth of their successive derivatives is controlled (except for a geometric factor) in
terms of a given sequence of positive real numbers in the ﬁrst case, or of a given weight
function in the second one. Moreover, depending on the choice of a universal or exis-
tential quantiﬁer for the geometric factor in the estimates, one can consider Beurling-
or Roumieu-like classes in both situations. The study of stability under inversion (or
division) in these frameworks has a long history, see the works of Rudin [17], Bruna [3]
1
