2
and Siddiqi [24], and also composition has been studied in Fern´andez and Galbis [4]. Re-
cently, the introduction of classes associated with a weight matrix, by the fourth author
of this paper [19, 20], which strictly encompass those classes mentioned before, has led
him and Rainer [13, 14] to the characterization of stability under diﬀerent operations in
terms of conditions for the weight matrix under consideration, so giving a satisfactory
general solution to these problems.
In connection with the asymptotic theory of solutions for diﬀerential and diﬀerence
equations around singular points in the complex domain, it is natural to consider the
complex analogue of such classes, usually called ultraholomorphic classes. They consist
of holomorphic functions in sectorial regions in the Riemann surface of the logarithm
(the singular point is assumed to be at 0, the vertex of the region) whose derivatives
admit again suitable estimates of Roumieu type in terms of a sequence of positive real
numbers, which in the applications is typically a Gevrey sequence (p!a)p∈N0 for some
a > 1. The study of stability properties in such classes is well-known for the Gevrey
ones, see [1], but already in 1987 Ider and Siddiqi [25] studied stability under composition
with analytic functions and under inversion for general Carleman-Roumieu classes in
unbounded sectors not wider than a half-plane. Our aim is to extend their results in
several senses: (1) we consider Roumieu classes deﬁned by weight matrices, so including
in our considerations those of Carleman type and those deﬁned by a weight function, as
in the ultradiﬀerentiable setting; (2) we are able to deal with classes deﬁned in sectors
of arbitrary opening in the Riemann surface of the logarithm, and (3) we extend the list
of stability properties, including that of composition closedness. It is important to note
that, in the case of classes given by a weight function, a fundamental role in the stability
properties is played by the condition that this function is equivalent to a concave weight
function, what amounts to the root almost increasing property for the associated weight
matrix.
The main novelties arise from two diﬀerent sources. On the one hand, the techniques
coming with the weight matrix structure allow for a better understanding of the con-
ditions usually appearing in such stability results, and provide a clear way to establish
results for the weight sequence and weight function approach. Indeed, our results extend
the known ones for Carleman classes, and they match, in the limit when the opening of
the sector tends to 0, with the ones for ultradiﬀerentiable classes on a half-line. On the
other hand, the main statements heavily rest on the construction of so-called charac-
teristic functions in Carleman-Roumieu ultraholomorphic classes in sectors of arbitrary
opening. These functions are those in a class which cannot belong to a class strictly
contained in the original one, and so are in a sense maximal within the class. While Ider
and Siddiqi only got such functions in narrow sectors, the work of Rodr´ıguez Salinas [16]
provides indeed the key facts for working in general sectors, and this is in turn crucial
for our purposes.
The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 contains all the preliminary information
about sequences, weight functions and weight matrices. For the ultraholomorphic classes
introduced in Section 3 we show how to construct characteristic functions in Section 4.
The stability results for classes associated with weight matrices are given in Section 5,
