Surjectivity of the asymptotic Borel map in Carleman
ultraholomorphic classes defined by sequences with shifted
moments
Javier Jiménez-Garrido
Ignacio Miguel-Cantero
Javier Sanz
Gerhard Schindl
September 24, 2025
Abstract
We prove several improved versions of the Borel-Ritt theorem about the surjectivity of
the asymptotic Borel mapping in classes of functions with M-uniform asymptotic expansion
on an unbounded sector of the Riemann surface of the logarithm. While in previous results
the weight sequence M of positive numbers is supposed to be derivation closed, a much
weaker condition is shown to be sufficient to obtain the result in the case of Roumieu classes.
Regarding Beurling classes, we are able to slightly improve a classical result of J. Schmets
and M. Valdivia and reprove a result of A. Debrouwere, both under derivation closedness.
Our new condition also allows us to obtain surjectivity results for Beurling classes in suitably
small sectors, but the technique is now adapted from a classical procedure already appearing
in the work of V. Thilliez, in its turn inspired by that of J. Chaumat and A.-M. Chollet.
Key words: Carleman-Roumieu and Carleman-Beurling ultraholomorphic classes, asymp-
totic expansions, Borel-Ritt theorem, extension operators.
2020 MSC: Primary 47A57; secondary 44A10, 46E10.
1
Introduction
This paper intends to improve known results on the surjectivity of the asymptotic Borel map
in so-called ultraholomorphic Carleman classes in an unbounded sector, both of Roumieu or
Beurling type. Such classes of holomorphic functions are defined by restricting the growth of their
derivatives, or that of the remainders in their uniform asymptotic expansion, in terms of a given
weight sequence M = (Mp)p∈N0 of positive real numbers, and the Borel map sends a function
into the formal power series providing its expansion. The classical Borel-Ritt-Gevrey theorem
of B. Malgrange and J.-P. Ramis [22] solved the problem for Gevrey asymptotics, for which
M = (p!α)p∈N0, α > 0. More general situations were covered by J. Schmets and M. Valdivia [24],
V. Thilliez [26], A. Debrouwere and the authors [23, 11, 3, 4, 12, 13]. The most satisfactory results
are valid for regular weight sequences in the sense of E. M. Dyn’kin [5] (see Subsection 2.1 for the
definitions). They determine the length of the interval of surjectivity, consisting of those values
γ > 0 such that the Borel map is surjective when considered on classes defined in the unbounded
sector Sγ bisected by the positive real line and with opening πγ in the Riemann surface of the
logarithm. Such length is precisely γ(M), an index introduced by V. Thilliez [26] for strongly
regular sequences and later studied [10] for any weight sequence. The first proof of this fact for
Roumieu classes, given in [12] and resting on the result of A. Debrouwere [3] for a halfplane, had
an abstract, functional-analytic flavor. Subsequently, and in the same vein as in a previous work
1
arXiv:2505.09444v1  [math.CV]  14 May 2025
